Chapter 11 - Definitions




CHAPTER 11 - INDEX




11-10: DEFINITIONS .............................................................................................................2




Land Use Code                                                                                      Pitkin County, Colorado
July 2006                                                                                                           Page 1
Chapter 11 Definitions


CHAPTER 11: DEFINITIONS

11-10: DEFINITIONS
In the interpretation of this Land Use Code the rules and definitions of this Sec. 11-10 shall
be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates otherwise.

•   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses and derivative
    forms.
•   Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, and words in the plural
    number shall include the singular number.
•   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and the feminine gender shall include
    the masculine.
•   The words "shall" or “must” are mandatory.
•   The words "may" or “should” are permissive.
•   The word "person" includes individuals, firms, corporations, associations, and any other
    similar entities.
•   The word "county" means the County of Pitkin, Colorado.
•   The word "state" means the State of Colorado.
•   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Land Use
    Code and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.

ABANDONMENT when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means that the
presumption of permanent abandonment of a well shall be based on the operator's filing with
the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. Presumption of permanent
abandonment of a facility shall be based upon nonuse or operation for one (1) year without
notification to the Community Development Department of the intent to resume operations
under specified conditions, or as otherwise defined by the Colorado Oil and Gas
Conservation Commission.

ACCESS means a paved or unpaved area intended to provide legal ingress or egress to a
property.

ACCESSORY AUTOMOBILE PARKING means automobile parking required pursuant
to Sec. 7-30-20, or otherwise provide for residents or patrons of a legal permitted use of the
property as a convenience during their residence or patronage of the use. This use does not
include the commercial storage of vehicles for periods of longer than one (1) month in return
for payment, services, or patronage.

ACCESSORY STRUCTURE WITH BATHING FACILITY means any accessory
structure that is not an accessory dwelling and that contains a bathing facility.

ACCESSORY USE OR ACCESSORY STRUCTURE means a use or structure that is
naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to, and devoted primarily to the principal
use or structure on the land; does not change the basic character of the land use, as
determined by its principal use or structure; is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the
principal use or structure served; contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the

Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 2
Chapter 11 Definitions


occupants of the principal use or structure served; and is located on the same lot or
contiguous lots under the same ownership as the principal use or structure. In no event shall
an accessory use be construed to authorize a use not otherwise permitted in the zone district
in which the principal use is located, and in no event shall an accessory use or structure be
established prior to the principal use or structure to which it is accessory. Accessory
structures shall not be provided with kitchen or bath facilities sufficient to render them
suitable for permanent residential occupation, unless approved pursuant to the provisions of
this Land Use Code. This Use Category includes uses like, but not limited to, “Accessory
Structure With Bathing Facility”, “Arts and Crafts Studio, Accessory,” “Bus Stop”,
“Caretaker Dwelling Unit”, “Club House or Recreational Building”, “Day Care Home”,
“Employee Dwelling Unit”, “Home Occupation”, “Satellite Reception Device”, “Solar
Energy Collector”, “Temporary Commercial Use”, “Trail”, “Water Crossing or Diversion”,
“Wind Powered Electric Generator”, and other uses that the Community Development
Director determines belong in this Use Category.

ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE, RR-LIR-AH/PUD means an accessory use or
structure that is available under certain circumstances in the RR, LIR, and AH-PUD zone
districts, but is not listed separately as a distinct form of accessory use or structure in this
Land Use Code.

ACTIVITY ENVELOPE means one or more areas of a lot or parcel designated in
accordance with this Land Use Code within which all development must occur, and that may
include separate areas for different activities, including, but not limited to, a well or other
water supply, septic system, landscaping, construction, grading, mitigation of environmental
hazards, vegetation removal or disturbance, etc.

ACTIVITY OF STATE INTEREST includes the following activities:

        A.     Site selection and construction of major new domestic water and sewage
        treatment systems and major extension of existing domestic water and sewage
        treatment systems;

        B.       Site selection and development of solid waste disposal sites;

        C.       Site selection of airports;

        D.       Site selection of rapid or mass transit terminals, stations, and fixed guideways;

        E.       Site selection of arterial highways and interchanges and collector highways;

        F.       Site selection and construction of major facilities of a public utility;

        G.       Efficient utilization of municipal and industrial water projects;

        H.       Conduct of nuclear detonations.

ADDITION means the adding on to a structure, usually resulting in an increase in floor area.



Pitkin County Land Use Code           CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 3
Chapter 11 Definitions


ADJACENT means the land or property directly adjoining the property in question, or land
located across an alley, easement, street, or highway from the property in question.

ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an establishment opens to the
public in which persons appear in a state of total or partial nudity for the purpose of
entertaining the patrons of such establishments, irrespective of whether such establishments
are licensed to serve alcohol or fermented malt beverages.

ADVERSELY AFFECTED PERSON means an applicant for traffic-generating
development, a property owner whose land is adjacent to land subject to development
exaction or impact fee requirements, and any division of Pitkin County government.

AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR EMPLOYEE HOUSING means dwelling units restricted
to the housing size and type for individuals meeting asset, income and minimum occupancy
guidelines as approved by the Board or its housing designee.

AGRICULTURE means the raising, producing, or keeping of plants or livestock, or
cultivation and management of other crops or farm products. Accessory uses may include
agricultural buildings, storage of grain, raising of livestock, feed preparation, and wholesale
sales of products produced on-site.

AGRICULTURAL BUILDING means any building or structure used for agricultural
purposes and not listed as a separate use in this Land Use Code, including but not limited to
sheds, barns, hay storage buildings, corrals, and agricultural well structures. Agricultural
buildings shall be detached from residential structures. An agricultural building is not a
place where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged.

AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT STORAGE BUILDING means a building used solely
for the storage and repair of agricultural equipment.

AGRICULTURAL HOUSING means a dwelling unit used in support of a primary
agricultural use on the property.

AGRICULTURAL OPERATION means a use of land for agriculture.

AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS means fresh fruits and vegetables that are grown in the
State of Colorado, or products from such produce (e.g., fruit juices or preserves).

AGRICULTURE STAND means a structure used for the sole purpose of selling agricultural
or farm products.

AGRICULTURAL USE means any use of the land meeting the definition of Agriculture in
this Land Use Code. This is a Use Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the
following: “Ranching”, “Farming”, “Blacksmithing”, “Farm Building”, “Commercial
Firewood Splitting”, “Horse Boarding”, Kennel or Veterinary Clinic”. “Silviculture”,
“Agricultural Uses, Unlisted”, and other uses that the Community Development Director
determines belong in this Use Category. Confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) are
not included in this Use Category, or in any defined use with this Use Category.

Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 4
Chapter 11 Definitions


AIRPORT means a facility for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, including but not limited
to, Pitkin County Airport (a.k.a. Sardy Field), as well as related accessory uses such as
aircraft servicing, storage, and leasing, car rental, and restaurant facilities.

ALLEY means a public way having less width than a street permanently reserved as a
secondary means of access to abutting property.

ALLUVIAL FAN is an area of deposition where steep mountain drainages empty into valley
floor, usually in arid regions. Flooding in these areas often includes characteristics that differ
from those riverine or coastal areas.

ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING (AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING) refers to
flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform which originates at
the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment
transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

ALPINE SKI AREA AND SUPPORT FACILITIES means an area of land used for
downhill skiing and related activities, including those structures and facilities necessary to
prepare, maintain, and operate skiing facilities and to serve those involved in the sport.

AMUSEMENT OR ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means any land use or
facility meeting the definition of an Entertainment or Recreation facility use and that is not
an Adult Entertainment Establishment.

APPLICANT means any person submitting a development application.

ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE (EXTERIOR) means the architectural style, design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a structure, including but not limited to, the texture,
materials, windows, lights, signs and other fixtures appurtenant to a structure.

AREA AROUND A KEY FACILITY means an area immediately adjacent to and directly
affected by a key facility.

AREA, GROSS means the total area of a site.

AREA OF STATE INTEREST means areas that contain:

        A.       Mineral resource areas;

        B.       Natural hazard areas;

        C.     Areas containing, or having a significant impact upon, historical, natural or
        archaeological resources of statewide importance; and

        D.     Areas around key facilities in which development may have a material effect
        upon the facility or the surrounding community.




Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                        Page 5
Chapter 11 Definitions


ARTERIAL HIGHWAY includes those roads defined as arterial highways by Pitkin
County, including:

        A.       Highway 82 – West of Aspen to County Line, and

        B.       Brush Creek Road.

ARTS AND CRAFTS STUDIO means a working place of painters, sculptors, potters,
photographers, weavers, carvers, and similar occupations that require artistic skill that does
not qualify as a Home Occupation or an accessory Arts or Crafts Studio.

ARTS AND CRAFTS STUDIO, ACCESSORY means an Arts or Crafts Studio that is
accessory to a primary residential use, provided that no sales of arts, crafts, or other goods
may take place on the premises.

ASPECT means the cardinal direction the land surface faces, characterized by north-facing
slopes generally having heavier vegetation cover.

ASPEN URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY means the area depicted on Attachment B
(map) to Ordinance 023-2000, appearing in Chapter 3 as Figure 3-1 of this Land Use Code.

ATTENDEES means the number of persons participating in a Special Event or Temporary
Land Use and Activities including those employed and/or volunteering for the duration of the
activity.

ATTIC means an area between roof framing and the ceiling framing of the room(s) below.

AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL means an off-street area in which
automobiles or other vehicles may be stored for temporary periods of time, not to exceed one
(1) year, for compensation.

AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION means a building, parcel of land, or other premises,
used for the retail dispensing of gasoline, diesel fuel, or other vehicle fuels, and/or the repair
of motor vehicles. Accessory uses may include a car wash and the incidental sales of vehicle
maintenance products.

AVALANCHE means a mass of snow or ice and other material that may become
incorporated therein as such mass moves rapidly down a mountain slope.

AVALANCHE HIGH HAZARD ZONE means an area within which avalanches have
return periods of thirty (30) years or less and/or will produce impact pressures of six hundred
thirty (630) pounds per square foot (PSF) or more. The high hazard zone is characterized by
either high frequency, high impact pressure, or both high frequency and high pressure. The
Avalanche High Hazard Zone is also known as the Red Zone.

AVALANCHE MODERATE HAZARD ZONE means an area within which avalanches
will occur at return periods in excess of thirty (30) years and/or will have impact pressures of
less than six hundred thirty (630) pounds per square foot. Avalanche frequency and impact


Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 6
Chapter 11 Definitions


pressures decrease toward the outer limits of this zone. When large avalanches occur and run
to the outer boundaries of this zone, they can be very destructive in spite of their reduced
probability and pressures. The Avalanche Moderate Hazard Zone is also known as the Blue
Zone.

BARN means a building used to shelter or enclose livestock, feed, or field equipment, or
otherwise used in support of an on-site agricultural operation. An indoor riding arena shall
not be considered a barn.

BASE FLOOD means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year.

BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) is the 100-year flood elevation or the water surface
elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year (100-year flood).

BASE MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA means the largest amount of gross floor area that may
be constructed on the lot or parcel pursuant to Table 5-1 without the approval of a GMQS
allocation and without the utilization of TDRs.

BASEMENT means that portion of a structure, fifty (50) percent or more of which is below
natural grade.

BATH FACILITY means facilities containing plumbing and/or fixtures installed or
arranged to permit human bathing, which may include a bathtub, shower, handheld shower
hose, or similar fixture.

BED AND BREAKFAST means the provision of short term incidental room and board in a
dwelling unit as an incidental use to that of its occupancy as a dwelling unit.

BEDROOM means a room that can be used for sleeping, has closets and adjacent access to
bath facilities.

BLACKSMITHING means the fabrication of metal objects used in agriculture or for
architectural detailing, fences, railings, and similar items.

BOARD means the Board of County Commissioners of Pitkin County, Colorado.

BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT means the Pitkin County Board of Adjustment.

BREEZEWAY means a covered walkway that connects portions of the same structure or
connects a principal structure to an accessory structure or use. A breezeway shall not be
allowed, used, or designed to separate dwelling units or to create two (2) or more
independent dwelling units from a single dwelling unit.

BUILDING means any structure, designed or built for the support, enclosure, shelter, or
protection of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind. A building includes yurts,



Pitkin County Land Use Code       CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 7
Chapter 11 Definitions


tepees, removable sheds, and similar uses, but does not include signs or fences as provided in
subsection D in the definitions of "Development" within this section.

BUILDING HEIGHT – see Sec. 5-20-60.

BUILDING INSPECTOR means that person performing the duties of the Chief Building
Official or other senior County official responsible for implementation of the building code
then in effect, or the designee of the Chief Building Official.

BUILDING MATERIALS AND LANDSCAPING means a primary use of the land that
includes the storage, repair, manufacture, rental and/or sales (including contract or
subcontract installation) of such items as cabinets, kitchen appliances, plumbing fixtures,
electrical fixtures, saunas, jacuzzis, pools, glass, furniture, office equipment, sheet metal,
roofing, carpet and tile, decorative steel, masonry, sheetrock, paints, insulation, concrete
products, solar energy equipment nursery stocks, hardware, lumber, wholesale and catalog
sales operations, landscaping, and yard equipment and supply dealers, or the operation of a
business related to such items, and that does not meet the definition of a home occupation.

BUILDING PERMIT means a permit issued by the Building Division of the Community
Development Department that authorizes an owner or authorized agent to construct, alter,
repair, move, demolish.

BUS STOP OR TRANSIT FACILITY means a facility where public transit or shuttle bus
may pick up or drop off passengers, or where bus routes cross and passengers may change
from one route to another. A bus stop may include a transit facility, where public transit
vehicles other than busses may pick up or drop off passengers, and where routes for such
vehicles cross and passengers may change from one route to another or from one mode of
public transit to another.

CAMPGROUND means an outdoor facility designed for temporary overnight
accommodation of human beings in tents or shelters for recreation, education, naturalist, or
vacation purposes. A campground is a primary use of land. Common accessory uses include
shower or toilet facilities or small retail sales of camping-related items operated solely for the
benefit of those staying in the camping area.

CAMPING AREA means an area of land that is not the primary use of the property, but that
is made available for temporary overnight accommodation of human beings in tents or
shelters for recreation, education, naturalist, or vacation purposes.

CARETAKER DWELLING UNIT (CDU) means a separate, accessory dwelling that is
deed restricted to occupancy by qualified residents, as defined in the employee housing
guidelines, and is subject to the restrictions of Sec. 4-30-50(e) of this Land Use Code.

CARRYING CAPACITY is a term borrowed from ecology that represents the upper limit
of population growth that can be achieved in a particular area when individuals are
introduced into that area. Carrying capacity is used in determining the potential of an area to
absorb development. Specifically, the term includes, but is not limited to: (1) the level of land
use, human activity, or development for a specific area that can be accommodated

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 8
Chapter 11 Definitions


permanently without an irreversible change in the quality of air, water, land or plant and
animal habitats; (2) the upper limits of development beyond which the quality of human life,
health, welfare, safety, or community character within an area will be impaired; (3) the
maximum level of development allowable under current zoning considering the carrying
capacity of the land from a physical and character based perspective.

CATEGORY AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR CATEGORY INCOME AND PRICE
RESTRICTED HOUSING means housing meeting the definition of Category Affordable
Housing in the employee housing guidelines.

CATEGORY EMPLOYEE HOUSING means affordable housing that has been deed
restricted for particular income categories, as defined in more detail in the employee housing
guidelines.

CEMETERY means a parcel of land or structure dedicated to, and at least a portion of
which is being used for, the interment of human or animal remains. A cemetery may include
crematories, mausoleums, and columbaria.

CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS means an official form issued by the
Community Development Department stating that the proposed work on a property
designated on the Pitkin County Historic Register is compatible with its historic and
architectural character and, therefore, the work may be completed as specified in the
certificate and the County may issue any permits needed to do the work specified in the
certificate.

CERTIFICATE OF NO EFFECT means an official form issued by the Community
Development Department stating that the proposed work will have no detrimental effect on
the character-defining features of a property designated on the Pitkin County Historic
Register and, therefore, the work may proceed as specified in the certificate without
obtaining further approvals and the County may issue any permits needed to do the work
specified in the certificate.

CERTIFICATE OF TDR means a document that is issued by the Community Development
Department that attests to the existence of transferable development rights (TDRs) that may
be transferred to a particular receiver site. The Certificate constitutes an official
determination by Pitkin County that the TDRs are eligible for transfer to a specific receiver
site, subject to special review approval pursuant to Sec. 2-40-30 of this Land Use Code. The
Certificate is not an opinion of title by Pitkin County in regard to the TDR(s) that are
proposed to be transferred. In the event a Certificate of TDR is lost or destroyed, the
Community Development Department may issue a replacement Certificate upon receipt of an
affidavit confirming such loss or destruction by the owner of such original certificate and
other documentation required by the County to ensure that the original Certificate will no
longer be valid.

CHANGE IN USE means a change in the use of a building, structure or property to another
use. Change in use shall include a change in use within allowed or special review uses within
the same zone district.


Pitkin County Land Use Code       CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 9
Chapter 11 Definitions


CHARACTER means the distinct physical characteristics of a structure or area that set it
apart from its surroundings and contribute to its individuality. Specifically with respect to
structures, character means the density, height, coverage, setback, massing, fenestration,
materials and scale of materials. With respect to an area, character means the nature of the
area in terms of intensity of the use using the terms rural, suburban, or urban.

CIVIC AND INSTITUTIONAL USES means those non-commercial facilities or uses of
land that are created or maintained by a governmental or non-profit entity to provide a
service to the public, or an institution operated primarily to confer a benefit upon the public.
The use or facility may be operated by a for-profit entity if the profits of operation are used to
expand or improve the services being delivered to the public. This is a Use Category that
includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Airport”, “Cemetery”, “Day Care
Center”, “Hospital”, “Park, Playground, or Playfield”, “Major Public Utility”, “Minor Public
Utility”, “Religious Institution”, “School or University”, “Sewage Disposal Area or Water
Plant”, and other uses that the Community Development Director determines belong in this
Use Category.

CLEARCUTTING. See LOGGING.

CLUB HOUSE OR RECREATIONAL BUILDING means an accessory structure used in
connection with and accessory to a permitted outdoor recreational use, or an accessory
structure that provides meeting space or clubhouse space for a residential development or
neighborhood.

COLLECTION LINE, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a pipeline
to a well designed to collect produced or waste water and transport it to a central disposal
area (evaporation pit or injection well).

COLLECTOR STREETS means those roads identified as collector streets by Pitkin
County, including:

        A.       Woody Creek Road

        B.     Lower Red Mountain Road (up to and including intersection with Hunter
        Creek Road)

        C.       Lower River Road

        D.       River Road

        E.       Snowmass Creek Road

        F.       Capitol Creek Road

COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURE means any activity occurring on a property or the use
of a property, including farming or ranching conducted for profit, which would cause the
property to be classified as agricultural land as defined pursuant to Title 39, Colorado
Revised Statutes.


Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 10
Chapter 11 Definitions


COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT shall mean and include, but not be limited to, the
expansion of existing or the construction of new office, retail, wholesale, warehouse,
manufacturing, commercial recreation, restaurant/bar and service commercial operations.

COMMERCIAL MINERAL DEPOSIT means a natural mineral deposit of limestone used
for construction purposes, coal, sand, gravel, and quarry aggregate, for which extraction by
an extractor is or will be commercially feasible and regarding that it can be demonstrated by
geologic, mineralogic or other scientific data that such deposit has significant economic or
strategic value to the area, state, or nation.

COMMISSION means the Pitkin County Planning and Zoning Commission.

COMMON ELEMENTS means:

        A.     In a condominium or cooperative, all portions of the condominium or
        cooperative other than the units; and

        B.      In a planned community, any real estate within a planned community owned
        or leased by the association, other than a unit.

COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY means real estate described in a declaration with
respect to which a person, by virtue of such person's ownership of a unit, is obligated to pay
for real estate taxes, insurance premiums, maintenance, or improvement of other real estate
described in a declaration. Common interest communities may take three (3) different forms:
condominiums; cooperatives; and planned communities. Ownership of a unit does not
include holding a leasehold interest in a unit of less than forty (40) years, including renewal
options. The period of the leasehold interest, including renewal options, is measured from the
date the initial term commences. The condominium and cooperative form of common interest
communities create separate ownership interests in units, and do not result in the subdivision
of land or the creation of legally separate lots.

COMMON OWNERSHIP means owned by the same owner for the purpose of this
definition, common ownership shall, when the form of ownership was created to avoid the
provisions of this Land Use Code, include ownership by a business or legal entity in which
the owner has a controlling interest, or ownership by his or her spouse, or ownership by a
business or legal entity in which the owner and his or her spouse together have a controlling
interest. Only one hundred (100) percent ownership of, or identical ownership interests in,
adjacent, contiguous parcels shall constitute common ownership.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR means the person primarily responsible
for building, planning and zoning administration for the County and city, or his/her designee.

COMPATIBLE means capable of existing together without conflict or ill effects.
Specifically with respect to structures, compatible means consistent with, harmonious with,
similar to and/or enhances the mixture of complementary architectural styles, either of an
individual structure or the character of the surrounding structures. With respect to resource
extraction activities, compatible means able to exist or act together harmoniously,
considering noise levels, odors, potential fire hazard, visual impacts, effects to surface water

Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 11
Chapter 11 Definitions


and groundwater quality/quantity, adequacy of the road system, air quality and surrounding
land uses.

COMPRESSOR STATION, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means an
installation consisting of one or more individual compressors, located on a gathering or
transmission pipeline, or both.

CONDOMINIUM means a common interest community in which portions of the real estate
are designated for separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common
ownership solely by the owners of the separate ownership portions. A common interest
community is not a condominium unless the undivided interests in the common elements are
vested in the unit owners. Condominiumization creates separate ownership interests in units,
and does not result in the subdivision of land or the creation of legally separate lots.

CONSTRAINED AREA shall have that meaning described in Sec. 7-10-50.

CONSTRAINED SITE means a site that has been designated as a Sending Site for
Transferable Development Rights because of the difficulty or impossibility of approving
development on the site, pursuant to Sec. 6-70.

CONTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT means development that will not fundamentally
change or be incompatible with the character of a neighborhood or area. Containable
development is also development that does not promote sprawl and that can be confined (or
held) within its area.

CONTIGUOUS means a sharing of a common border at more than a single point of
intersection and in such a manner that the shared boundaries are touching and not separated,
except by boundaries or private rights-of-way, water courses or water bodies, or other minor
geographical divisions of a similar nature running parallel and between the shared
boundaries.

COOPERATIVE means a common interest community in which the real property is owned
by an association, each member of which is entitled by virtue of such member's ownership
interest in the association to exclusive possession of a unit. The creation of cooperative
ownership interests does not result in the subdivision of land or the creation of legally
separate lots.

CORROSIVE SOIL means soil that contains soluble salts that may produce serious
detrimental effects in concrete, metal, or other substances that are in contact with such soil.

COUNTRY INN means a building located outside of an urban growth boundary on a parcel
containing at least thirty-five (35) acres, designed for and occupied as a temporary dwelling
place of individuals and providing no more than five (5) guest rooms, plus one (1) guest
room per thirty-five (35) acres of land in excess of the first thirty-five (35) acres on the
parcel, up to a maximum of ten (10) guest rooms.

COUNTY APPROVED SUBDIVISION means a platted subdivision or Planned Unit
Development that the Board of County Commissioners or Planning and Zoning Commission

Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 12
Chapter 11 Definitions


has approved according to the procedures set forth in this Land Use Code or prior versions of
the Pitkin County Land Use Code. “County Approved Subdivision” as used herein does not
include subdivisions created by court decree, settlement agreement, exemption pursuant to
C.R.S. Sec. 30-28-101, subdivision exemption plat, lot line adjustment, or any other
provision of law that does not require Board of County Commissioner approval pursuant to
the procedures in this Pitkin County Land Use Code.

CRAWL SPACE (HORIZONTAL) means an area below the first usable floor of a building
or portion of a building, excluding decks, patios and terraces. Horizontal Crawl Spaces are
exempt from floor area calculations when less than five (5) feet six (6) inches in height.
Horizontal Crawl Spaces do not exceed the footprint of the exterior walls of the structure
above, except that Crawl Spaces may be detached form the principal structure when used for
exterior uses such as Jacuzzis, spas, hospitality bars, water features, sprinkler systems, and
pool mechanical areas. Such Crawl Spaces shall be no larger than necessary to accommodate
necessary mechanical equipment and may not be used for other uses.
CRAWL SPACE (VERTICAL) means an enclosed, unfinished, and non-habitable area that
may exceed five feet six inches (5’6”) in height and is located between the exterior of a
foundation wall and the surface of the finished grade of a vertical or nearly vertical slope,
which slope is retained by an engineered system which requires a separation between the
foundation wall and the surface of the finished grade of the slope. Subject to the conditions in
Section 5-20-70(d)2)
CREEK means any natural channel or depression through which water flows, whether
continuously, intermittently, or periodically, including any artificial modification of the
natural channel or depression.

CRITICAL FACILITY means a structure or related infrastructure, but not the land on
which it is situated, as specified in, 7-20-40 (f) 9, that if flooded may result in significant
hazards to public health and safety or interrupt essential services an operation’s for the
community at any time before, during and after a flood.

CRITICAL USE HOURS means that time of day when disturbance is most likely to
increase stress to and negatively impact wildlife.

CRITICAL USE PERIOD means that portion of the year (weeks or months) when
disturbance is most likely to increase stress to and negatively impact wildlife.

CRYSTAL RIVER AREA means the area depicted on Attachment B (map) to Ordinance
023-2000, appearing in Chapter 1 as Figure 1-1 of this Land Use Code.

CUL-DE-SAC means a short local street terminating in a vehicular turnaround.

DAY CARE CENTER means a facility that provides regular supervision and care for
periods of less than twenty-four (24) hours per day to six (6) or more children under the age
of sixteen (16) years who are not related to the owner or operator of the center that is
licensed, as required, by the State of Colorado.



Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 13
Chapter 11 Definitions


DAY CARE HOME means a facility that provides regular supervision and care of fewer
than six (6) children under the age of sixteen (16) years, provided that (a) if the day care
home is developed in conjunction with a residential use, it shall meet the requirements of a
home occupation, and (b) if the day care home is developed in conjunction with an institution
or business, it shall be limited to use by the children of employees or guests of that institution
or business.

DEBRIS-FAN FLOODPLAIN means a floodplain that is located at the mouth of a
mountain valley tributary stream as such stream enters the valley floor.

DECISION-MAKING BODY means a board, commission, agency, or group (including
Pitkin County staff, as applicable) that is authorized by this Land Use Code to make a final
decision (which may still be subject to appeal) on a development approval or building permit
application. A given board, commission, agency, or group may be a reviewing body for
purposes of some types of applications and a decision-making body for purposes of other
types of applications.

DEFENSIBLE SPACE means an area either natural or man-made, where material capable
of allowing a fire to spread unchecked has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate
and intensity of an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire suppression operations to
occur.

DEMOLITION means the act of demolishing a structure fully or totally.

DENSITY means a measurement of land development intensity, generally used for
residential uses, derived from a ratio of land area to dwelling units. Density is measured by
dividing the total number of dwelling units by total land area to arrive at a dwelling unit per
land area ratio.

DESIGNATED AGENT, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means an agent
designated by the owner or lessee, as defined by the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation
Commission.

DETENTION FACILITY means (a) a facility for the judicially required detention or
incarceration of people, where inmates and detainees are under twenty-four (24) hour
supervision by sworn officers, except when on an approved leave; or (b) group homes,
halfway houses, or alternatives to incarceration for individuals previously convicted of sexual
assaults, sexual abuse, or other sex-related criminal offences; or (c) group homes, halfway
houses, or alternatives to incarceration containing any individual who will be subject to the
issuance of an arrest or escape warrant if they leave the facility without permission. Provided
that the use otherwise complies with this definition, a Detention Facility may include, by way
of illustration, a prison, jail, probation center, juvenile detention home, or halfway house for
sex offenders.

DEVELOPABLE, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means land
considered to be developable for residential purposes if it does not have slopes exceeding
thirty (30) percent, and is not located within a geologic hazard area, federally defined
floodway, drainage channel or wetland area greater than one (1) acre.

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 14
Chapter 11 Definitions


DEVELOPER means any person or entity, including a governmental agency, undertaking
any development as detailed in the definition of “Development” below.

DEVELOPMENT means the carrying out of any building activity, the making of any
material change in the use or appearance of any structure or land, or the subdividing of land
into two (2) or more parcels,

    A. Development includes, but is not limited to, the following:

        1.       A reconstruction or alteration of the size or building footprint of a structure.
        2.       A change in the intensity of use of land, such as the establishment of, or an
                 increase or decrease in, the number of dwelling units or floor area.
        3.       Commencement of drilling, mining, or excavation on a parcel of land.
        4.       Total demolition or partial demolition of a structure.
        5.       Clearing of land, including clearing or removal of vegetation, and including
                 any significant disturbance of vegetation or substrate (soil) manipulation.
        6.       Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste, or fill on a parcel of land.
        7.       The construction, installation and operation of oil and gas facilities, facilities
                 for logging, or facilities for mineral extraction.

        B.      For purposes of Scenic View Protection, “Development” shall be defined as
        any construction, vegetation or grading activity that changes the basic character or
        use of a parcel of land or that significantly alters the visibility of an existing use from
        the Scenic View Protection Area map described in Sec. 7-20-120(b).

        C.      Development includes all other activity customarily associated with it. When
        appropriate to the context, "development" refers to the act of developing or to the
        result of the act of development. Reference to any specific operation is not intended
        to mean that the operation or activity, when part of other operations or activities, is
        not development. Reference to particular operations is not intended to limit the
        generality of this definition.

        D.      The following shall not be considered development and therefore, do not
        require a permit:

                 1.      Fences that comply with the fence standards found in Section 7-20-
                         70(c)(4) and (5) of this Land Use Code or
                 2.      Fences that are less than six (6) feet in height and are located on
                         parcels assessed by the Assessor's Office as Agriculture.

        E.     For purposes of work within the Floodplain, “Development” shall be defined
        as any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate, including but not
        limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
        excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.




Pitkin County Land Use Code           CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 15
Chapter 11 Definitions


DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION means any written request for approval and/or issuance
of a development order.

DEVELOPMENT PERMIT includes any permit, special review approval, subdivision
approval, approval of growth management allotment, or any other official action by any
official, council, commission, or board of the County having the effect of permitting
development.

DEVELOPMENT RIGHT means the right to use a parcel of land for uses permitted in
Table 4-1 and/or a separate estate in land that is severable from the fee simple estate to which
it is appurtenant.

DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (D.B.H.) means the diameter in inches of a tree measured
at four and one-half feet (4½) above the existing grade.

DISTRIBUTED ENERGY SYSTEMS means a collection of energy generation and storage
resources that are not in a centralized location, but instead, spread out across an energy
utility’s district where said resources will be used and connected to the grid at distribution
level.

DOMESTIC WATER AND SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM means a wastewater
treatment plant, water treatment plant, or water supply system as defined in Section 25-9-
102, C.R.S., 1973, and any system of pipes, structures, and facilities through which water
supply is obtained, treated, and sold or distributed for human consumption or household use.

DORMITORY HOUSING means a structure or portion of a structure under single
management that provides group sleeping accommodations for guests or residents in one (1)
or more rooms for compensation, and that does not meet the definition of a Group Home.
Occupancy of a dormitory unit shall be limited to no more than eight (8) persons. Each unit
shall provide a minimum of one hundred fifty (150) square feet per person of net living area,
including sleeping, bathroom, cooking, and lounge areas used in common. Standards for use
and design of such facilities shall be established by the Aspen/Pitkin employee housing
guidelines.

DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL STRUCTURES means all facilities necessary
to control the direction, depth, velocity and volume of water flow within a development, and
to mitigate erosion and related water quality impacts resulting from development.

DRAINAGE PROBLEM(S) means any unsatisfactory condition(s) that may affect or result
from the natural withdrawal of excess surface water or groundwater from the tract or from
the vicinity of the tract. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, low-lying areas not
having adequate drainage outlets, shallow groundwater tables, or storm water runoff
originating from developed or undeveloped areas on or adjacent to the tract.

DRY WASH CHANNEL and DRY WASH FLOODPLAIN means a small watershed with
a very high percentage of runoff after torrential rainfall.



Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 16
Chapter 11 Definitions


DWELLING means a permanent building or portion of a permanent building that is used as
the private residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, but not including
hotels, lodge units, clubs, hospitals, temporary structures such as tents, railroad cars, trailers,
street cars, prefabricated metal sections, or similar units.

DWELLING UNIT means a separately enterable room or combination of rooms, that
contain kitchen or bath facilities and that are designed for or can be used as a residence by a
single family or guests, independent of other families or guests. This use type includes
without limitation any single-family dwelling units (including manufactured homes), duplex
or multi-family dwelling units, and mobile homes. The abbreviation DU shall mean dwelling
unit.

DWELLING UNIT, DUPLEX means a two-family dwelling with the units either side-by-
side or in an over-under configuration. In the side-by-side configuration, the units share a
common wall, while in the over-under configuration, they are stacked. A minimum of twenty
(20) percent of the length of the two (2) walls in common shall be shared between the units,
regardless of whether the wall is shared by all floors of the units. The shared walls in
common shall not be the walls of a breezeway, or similar accessory structure, but may
include the walls of a garage.

DWELLING UNIT, MULTI-FAMILY means a dwelling containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, not including hotels and lodges, but including townhouses, with accessory use
facilities limited to an office, laundry, recreation facilities and off-street parking used by the
occupants. Where one (1) or more dwelling units are located above the ground floor in a
structure where the ground floor is a non-residential use permitted by right or by special
review, such units shall be considered as multi-family dwelling units.

DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY means an individual detached residential dwelling
that is designed and intended to house one (1) family at a time and that is developed with
open yards on all sides of the dwelling unit. Single-family dwelling unit does not include
mobile homes or recreational vehicles, but does include a manufactured home. Single family
dwelling units may take the form of alternative/nontraditional structures such as domes,
yurts, teepees and elevated platforms and tree houses contingent upon compliance with the
adopted building code requirements.

EAGLE (BALD OR GOLDEN) ACTIVE NEST SITE means a specific location in which
a pair of eagles has at least attempted to nest within the last five (5) years. Any nest location
that can be directly tied to courtship, breeding, or brooding behavior is considered active.

EAGLE (BALD ONLY) ROOST SITE means an area that provides diurnal and/or
nocturnal perches for wintering bald eagles and includes a buffer zone extending one-quarter
(1/4) mile around these sites. These trees are usually the tallest available trees in the
wintering area and are primarily located in riparian habitats.

EASEMENT means a property right given by an owner of land to another for specific
limited use of that land.



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 17
Chapter 11 Definitions


EATING, MEETING and LODGING USE means facilities where prepared food or
beverages are served to patrons for consumption, and/or where meeting facilities are
provided, and/or where lodging and ancillary activities are provided to transient visitors and
guests for a defined period. Accessory uses include providing food to guests staying at the
facility or to outside visitors on a limited or occasional basis. This is a Use Category that
includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Bed and Breakfast”, “Country Inn”,
“Guest Ranch”, “Hotel, Motel, or Lodge”, “Resort Cabin”, “Restaurant and/or Bar”,
“Timeshare or Fractional Ownership”, and other uses that the Community Development
Director determines belong in this Use Category.

EDUCATIONAL CLASS means a use in which instructors provide instruction to students
on topics such as yoga, health, art, the environment, or home, personal, or business skills, and
that does not meet the definition of a school or university.

EMPLOYEE DWELLING UNIT (EDU) means a separate, accessory dwelling unit of less
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) net livable square feet attached to, within, or
detached from a principal dwelling unit situated on the same parcel. An EDU is deed
restricted to occupancy by qualified residents, as defined in the employee housing guidelines,
and is subject to the restrictions of Sec. 6-30-40(d) of this Land Use Code. An EDU shall not
be considered a separate dwelling unit for density or sale purposes. The square footage of the
EDU shall be included in the total allowed floor area of the applicable zone district.

EMPLOYEE HOUSING GUIDELINES means those written guidelines, policies, and
definitions of terms related to the construction, provision, and or management of affordable
housing units, and the calculation of affordable housing obligations, prepared by the
Aspen/Pitkin County Housing Office, as adopted and amended from time to time by the
Board of County Commissioners.

ENDANGERED SPECIES means those species designated by the Federal Government or
the State of Colorado as any species that are in danger of extinction throughout all or a
significant portion of its range as that definition may be amended by federal government laws
or regulations from time to time, other than a species of the Class Insecta determined by the
Federal Government or State of Colorado to constitute a pest whose protection under the
provisions of this Act would present an overwhelming and overriding risk to man.

ENERGY STORAGE means any form of storing electrical energy for later use, including
but not limited to: batteries, compressed gas, hydrogen systems, pumped hydroelectric,
thermal, and flywheels.

ENGINEER means a registered professional engineer, licensed by the State of Colorado.

ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION is a use category including uses that provide
indoor or outdoor recreation or entertainment activities. Accessory uses may include
concessions, snack bars, parking, and maintenance facilities. This is a Use Category that
includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Adult Entertainment Establishment”,
“Alpine Ski Area & Support”, “Amusement or Entertainment Establishment”,
“Campground”, “Golf Course”, “Nordic Ski Area and Support Facilities”, “Outdoor


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 18
Chapter 11 Definitions


Recreational, Other”, “Riding Stable or Academy”, and other uses that the Community
Development Director determines belong in this Use Category.

EVAPORATION, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means an excavated
pit used for storing and evaporating wastewater produced in degasification activities, during
drilling or production, or both, sometimes lined.

EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including as a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring
of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management
regulation adopted by a community.

EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION
means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).


EXPANSIVE SOIL AND ROCK means soil and rock that contains clay and that expands
to a significant degree upon wetting and shrinks upon drying.

EXTERIOR ENERGY STORAGE means any form of energy storage that is not contained
within a residence.

EXTRACTOR means any person or entity, private or governmental, that extracts mineral
deposits.

FAMILY means two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage, or between whom
there is a another legally recognized relationship, or not more than five (5) unrelated persons
occupying the same dwelling unit.

FAR. See FLOOR AREA RATIO .

FARMING means the raising of agricultural products for consumption or commercial sale.
Products may include, but are not limited to, vegetables, grains, fruits, plants, Christmas
trees, nursery stock, sod, and other similar products.

FATHERING PARCEL OR ORIGINAL PARCEL means any legally created lot or
parcel of land that was owned in single and separate ownership prior to land division or
subdivision.

FENCE means a structure that serves as a barrier intended to prevent escape or intrusion, to
mark a boundary, to shield or screen from view, or to serve any similar purpose.

FINAL MAXIMUM FLOOR AREA means the largest amount of gross floor area that may
be constructed on the lot or parcel pursuant to Table 5-1. GMQS allocations shall not be

Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 19
Chapter 11 Definitions


granted if floor area will exceed the final maximum floor area. TDRs may not be utilized to
increase floor area beyond the final maximum floor area.

FINAL PLAT means a subdivision map approved by the County for recording with the
County Clerk and Recorder, that fully conforms to the requirements of this Land Use Code.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means an establishment that provides retail banking services,
mortgage lending, or similar financial services to individuals and businesses. This
classification includes those institutions engaged in the on-site circulation of cash money and
check-cashing facilities, but shall not include bail bond brokers. The establishment may or
may not have drive-through facilities depending on the zone district in which it is located.

FINISHED GRADE means the elevation of the ground surface following development
activity.

FIRE CODE OFFICIAL means the Code Official representative from Fire District
Authority having jurisdiction in the area where development is located (like a Fire Marshal,
Fire Chief).

FIRE INTENSITY CLASSIFICATION means the level of fire intensity identified for
areas where significant fuel hazards and associated dangerous fire behavior may exist, based
upon vegetative fuels, topography, weather conditions, and flame length value.

FUEL MODIFICATION means a method of modifying fuel load by reducing the amount
of nonfire-resistive vegetation or altering the type of vegetation to reduce the fuel load

FIREWOOD SPLITTING, COMMERCIAL means an area where timber is located,
prepared and stored for sale, primarily by delivery, to the public for use as fireplace wood.

FLOOD OR FLOODING means:

    A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry
          land areas from:

            1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
            2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
            source.

    B. The collapse or subsidence of a land along the shore of a lake or other body of water
          as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
          exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high
          water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an
          unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood, or by some similarly unusual
          and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined in paragraph (A)(1)
          of this definition.




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 20
Chapter 11 Definitions


FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) means an official map of a community, on
which the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the risk
premium zones applicable to the community.

FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY) means an examination,
evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water
surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion hazards.


FLOODPLAIN (100 YEAR FLOODPLAIN) means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding). (Flood Hazard Area): Flood
hazard areas identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map are identified as a Special Flood
Hazard Area (SFHA). SFHA are defined as the area that will be inundated by the flood event
having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. The 1-percent
annual chance flood is also referred to as the base flood or 100-year flood. SFHAs are
labeled as Zone A, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zones A1-A30, Zone AE, Zone A99, Zone AR,
Zone AR/AE, Zone AR/AO, Zone AR/A1-A30, Zone AR/A, Zone V, Zone VE, and Zones
V1-V30. Moderate flood hazard areas, labeled Zone B or Zone X (shaded) are also shown on
the FIRM, and are the areas between the limits of the base flood and the 0.2-percent-annual-
chance (or 500-year) flood. The areas of minimal flood hazard, which are the areas outside
the SFHA and higher than the elevation of the 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood, are labeled
Zone C or Zone X (unshaded).

FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR - The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations.

FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT – A permit required before construction or
development begins within any Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). If FEMA has not
defined the SFHA within a community, the community shall require permits for all proposed
construction or other development in the community including the placement of
manufactured homes, so that it may determine whether such construction or other
development is proposed within flood-prone areas. Permits are required to ensure that
proposed development projects meet the requirements of the NFIP and this floodplain
management ordinance.

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT - The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS - Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other
applications of police power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention
and reduction.


Pitkin County Land Use Code       CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                  Page 21
Chapter 11 Definitions


FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE - A physical structure designed and built expressly or
partially for the purpose of reducing, redirecting, or guiding flood flows along a particular
waterway. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance
with sound engineering standards.

FLOODPROOFING - Any combination of structural and/or non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate
or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY) - The channel of a river or other
watercourse and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. The Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to be used for all newly
studied reaches shall be one-half foot (six inches). Letters of Map Revision to existing
floodway delineations may continue to use the floodway criteria in place at the time of the
existing floodway delineation.

FLOOR means the top surface of an enclosed area in a building; i.e., the top of the wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term includes the floor of an area used for garages,
indoor parking areas, storage accessways, breezeways, stairs, elevator shafts, basements and
accessory uses and structures.

FLOOR AREA – see Sec. 5-20-70.

FLOOR AREA RATIO means the floor area of the building or buildings on a lot divided by
the total lot area.

FOOT-CANDLE means a measurable industry standard equivalent to one (1) lumen (a
measure of light) per square foot. No commercial property or properties containing mixed
uses with a commercial component may exceed twenty (20) foot candles as measured three
(3) feet above grade (approximate waist height).

FRACTIONAL FEE means a tenancy in common interest in improved real property created
or held by two (2) or more persons, partnerships, corporations, or joint ventures (and similar
entities) wherein the joint tenants have formally or informally arranged (by oral or written
agreement or understanding) for the preferred or exclusive use by one (1) or more of the
tenants in common during specified periods of time.

FREEBOARD - The vertical distance in feet above a predicted water surface elevation
intended to provide a margin of safety to compensate for unknown factors that could
contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood such as
debris blockage of bridge openings and the increased runoff due to urbanization of the
watershed.




Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 22
Chapter 11 Definitions


FREE MARKET UNIT means any dwelling unit that is not restricted to the housing size,
type, income and occupancy guidelines of the Board of County Commissioners and its
housing designee.

FRYING PAN AREA means the area depicted as “Frying Pan Valley” on Figure 1-1: Pitkin
County Comprehensive Plan Area Boundaries in Chapter 1 of this Land Use Code .

FUEL BREAK means an area of land in which trees and other combustible vegetation have
been or must be cleared in order to reduce the threat of wildfire.

FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE IN CHARACTER means that the development proposed is
likely to result in a change in the character of an area so fundamental that its classification as
rural, suburban or urban will change.

GAS WELL, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a well having a
pressure and volume of natural gas; specifically, producing methane, often in combination
with a variety of other substances such as butane, propane and carbon dioxide.

GATHERING SYSTEM, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a
system consisting of well (or gathering), lateral, and trunk pipelines transporting oil, gas or
other products derived from oil and gas production to a central facility or transmission
pipeline, and so classified under the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations.

GENERAL SERVICES means warehouses, wholesale and retail storage (with distribution
office on the premises), maintenance and storage garages, bulk cleaning and dry cleaning,
repair shops, and printing presses. This use also includes business related to the production,
storage, distribution, and wholesale sale of food product, including a food and liquor
residential delivery service, a catering business, a restaurant/bar supply service, a wholesale
farm and ranch co-op, a creamery, a bakery with or without an accessory retail outlet, a cold
storage locker, and meat and other food, vegetable, or liquid processing.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) means an organized collection of
computer hardware, software, geographic data, and personnel designated to efficiently
capture, store, update, manipulate, analyze, and display all forms of geographically
referenced information.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD means a geologic phenomenon that is so adverse to past, current or
foreseeable construction or land use as to constitute a significant hazard to public health and
safety or to property. The term includes, but is not limited to:

        A.     Avalanches, landslides, rock falls, mudflows, and unstable or potentially
        unstable slopes;

        B.       Mancos shale, talus slopes, and faults;

        C.       Seismic effects;

        D.       Radioactivity;


Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 23
Chapter 11 Definitions


        E.       Ground subsidence; and/or

        F.       Areas of expansive soil and rock, corrosive soil, or situation.

GEOLOGIC HAZARD AREA means an area that contains or is directly affected by a
geologic hazard.

GEOLOGICAL CONSTRAINTS shall include locations with areas that are or may
become hazardous due to geologic conditions. Geological constraints shall include, but not
be limited to, the following: avalanche areas; landslide areas, mancus shale areas and/or
expansive soil and rock; rockfall areas; mud flow and debris fan areas; areas with unstable or
potentially-unstable slopes and/or ground subsidence; areas with seismic effects or faults;
areas with radioactive material; areas with talus slope(s).

GOLF COURSE means a land area and buildings that includes a golf course and/or putting
green, and may also include a driving range, a clubhouse, and eating facilities for patrons of
the golf course.

GRADE, FINISHED See FINISHED GRADE.

GRADE, NATURAL See NATURAL GRADE.

GRAPHIC DESIGNS means any artistic design or portrayal painted or otherwise placed
directly on an exterior wall, fence, awning, window or other structure, that is visible from
any outside area, and that has as its purpose artistic effect, and not the identification of the
premises or the advertisement or promotion of the interests of any private or public firm,
person, organization, service or product.

GREENHOUSE means a structure that is designed and used primarily for the purpose of
growing trees, fruits, vegetables, flowers, grain, ornamental plants, or other crops. A
greenhouse includes structures constructed of rigid or flexible materials, which may be used
on a seasonal or year-round basis. A greenhouse may be moveable. A greenhouse does not
include “row covers,” which consist of a sunlight-admitting material laid directly over plants
or over supports, or cold frames, with a height of 4’ or less. A greenhouse includes hoop
houses, cold frames, high tunnels and other structures with a height of more than 4’ that are
used to extend the growing season. A greenhouse is not a place where agricultural products
are processed, treated or packaged.

GROCERY STORE means a retail establishment that is primarily engaged in sales of
packaged food and produce, rather than food prepared for consumption on the premises or
other goods.

GROSS FLOOR AREA – See Sec. 5-20-80.

GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTOR means any solar energy
collector that is not directly attached to a building via any ancillary development (racking
assembly, balancing system, etc.)



Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 24
Chapter 11 Definitions


GROUND SUBSIDENCE means a process characterized by the downward displacement of
surface material caused by natural phenomena, such as removal of underground fluids,
natural consolidation, or dissolution of underground minerals, or by man-made phenomena,
such as underground mining.

GROUNDWATER means subsurface water within and below the zone of continuous
saturation.

GROUP HOME means a permanent building that is owner-occupied or is a non-profit and
used exclusively as a residence for not more than eight (8) persons not meeting the definition
of a family who are sixty (60) years of age or older, or who are defined as “handicapped”
under the federal Fair Housing Act Amendments 42 USCA §3601 or as “developmentally
disabled” or “mentally ill” under C.R.S. 30-28-115, and who do not need skilled or
intermediate care facilities. A facility with more than eight (8) persons, or that need skilled or
intermediate care facilities, is categorized as a Nursing or Convalescent Home.

GROUP LIVING means a residential use characterized by residential occupancy of a
structure by a group of people who do not meet the definition of “Household Living.”
Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer basis, and the size of the group may be larger
than a family. Generally, Group Living structures have a common eating area for residents.
The residents may receive care, training, or treatment, and caregivers may or may not also
reside at the site. Accessory uses commonly include recreational facilities and vehicle
parking for occupants and staff. This is a Use Category that includes uses like, but not
limited to, the following: “Dormitory Housing”, “Group Home”, “Nursing, Convalescent,
Rest, or Retirement Home” and other uses that the Community Development Director
determines belong in this Use Category.

GROWTH IMPACT means any activity that results in the need for additional employee
housing or parking spaces; generates increased traffic demand, water and sewer needs, fire
and police protection requirements, off-site drainage and road demands; or otherwise requires
the provision of increased government services.

GUEST RANCH means a working ranch, on a parcel containing at least thirty-five (35)
acres, with an accessory structure for the lodging or boarding of guests while they indulge in
recreational activities on or adjacent to the ranch. A guest ranch shall have no more than ten
(10) guest rooms, plus one (1) guest room per thirty-five (35) acres of land in excess of the
first one hundred forty (140) acres on the parcel, up to a maximum of twenty (20) guest
rooms. Occupancy by any guest shall not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days, or more than
thirty (30) days in any six month period.

GUIDELINE means written statements, explanatory material, graphic renderings and/or
photographs that are advisory recommendations intended to provide property owners and the
public with specific examples of techniques and materials that can be used to achieve
adopted standards. A guideline is an indication of County policy or preferences; however,
compliance is not mandatory, but rather compliance is encouraged to further the County’s
land use goals and policies.



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 25
Chapter 11 Definitions


HAY STORAGE BUILDING means a building used for the storage and protection of hay.

HEIGHT means the maximum vertical distance between the lowest point of natural or
finished grade to the highest point of a structure or other feature. Also see: BUILDING
HEIGHT.

HELICOPTER AND FIXED WING AIRCRAFT LOADING AND UNLOADING
means the loading or unloading of occupants or cargo into or off of any helicopter or other
fixed wing aircraft. This Use does not apply to emergency rescue, utility
installations/maintenance, communication or ski lift tower installation, operations at the
Aspen/Pitkin County Airport, in response to a community emergency such as wildfire
response, for construction in the RR zone district when approved by Special Review
(reference Section 3-40-20(c)(2)(c)), for other Temporary Uses or Special Events as
approved by Pitkin County, or when used by Federal, State or Local authorities in the course
of their official duties. Nor does it apply to unmanned aerial systems or unmanned aerial
vehicles.


HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE – The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

HISTORIC AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCE AREAS means historic structures,
sites, buildings, features and areas within unincorporated Pitkin County that are subject to the
standards of Secs. 7-20-100 or 7-20-110.

HISTORIC PRESERVATION GUIDELINES means those historic preservation
guidelines, if any, adopted by the Board of County Commissioners from time to time.

HOME OCCUPATION means a business, occupation or trade conducted entirely within a
residential building or accessory structure for gain or support by a resident of the dwelling,
and no other, that (1) is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of the building;
and (2) does not change the essential residential character of the land use. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, none of the following uses shall constitute a home occupation: antique shop,
barber shop, beauty parlor, health or medical clinic, mortuary, nursing home, restaurant,
veterinarian's clinic, building materials supply or installation, landscaping materials supply or
installation, or dance studio.

HORSE BOARDING means the keeping, care, and feeding of horses not owned by the
property owner.

HOSPITAL means a public or private facility, including in- and out-patient care,
medical/dental services, wards, surgery services, laboratories, physical therapy services,
diagnostic services, radiology services, emergency medical services, pharmacy services,
administration offices, gift shops, waiting rooms, kitchens (to service hospital patients, staff
and visitors), and similar uses; health service and prepaid health maintenance offices;
ambulance garages; heliports; and associated parking lots.



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 26
Chapter 11 Definitions


HOTEL, MOTEL, OR LODGE means a building designed for and occupied as a
temporary dwelling place of guests and providing five (5) or more room units where
customary hotel services, including on-site operations and management services, are
provided.

HOUSEHOLD means any group of individuals living together as a common household unit,
and sharing a common bond such as a family relationship or common membership in a
religious or non-profit organization requiring them to live together. This use does not
include a group of individuals who are living together in order to receive therapy, medical
assistance, or assistance with daily activities, unless such group is required by state or federal
law to be treated as a household.

HOUSEHOLD LIVING means a residential use characterized by residential occupancy of a
dwelling unit by a household. Tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis
(lodging where tenancy may be arranged for a period of less than thirty (30) days is classified
under the “Tourist Accommodation” category), and includes various types of affordable
housing. Common accessory uses include recreational activities, raising of pets, gardens,
personal storage buildings, hobbies, and parking of the occupants’ vehicles. This is a Use
Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Duplex Dwelling Unit”,
“Mobile Home”, “Mobile Home Park”, “Multi-family Dwelling Unit”, “Single Family
Dwelling Unit”, and other uses that the Community Development Director determines belong
in this Use Category.

HOUSING DESIGNEE means the Board of County Commissioners, or a person or entity
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to provide advice on matters of affordable
or employee housing.

IGNITION-RESISTENT VEGETATION means vegetation that includes but is not limited
to plants with Ignitability Scores of eight (8) or greater listed in the Colorado State
University Extension and Colorado State Forest Service Fact Sheet 6.305 for Ignition-
Resistant Landscape Plants. The Fact Sheet may be updated from time to time.

IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a person related by blood or marriage who is a first cousin
(or closer relative) and his or her children.

IMPAIRED means a structure substantially unsuitable in its existing condition for its
intended use.

IMPERILED, when used in connection with wildlife species, shall have the same meaning
assigned to the term by Colorado or federal wildlife protection legislation.

IMPERVIOUS COVER means materials placed over the surface of the ground (e.g.,
pavement, sidewalks, roofs, driveways) that reduce the infiltration of precipitation into the
ground.

INCENTIVES FOR USE OF TDR RIGHTS means legislatively created bonuses and
exemptions to enhance the preservation of lands within Sending Sites defined in this Land
Use Code and encourage the transfer of development rights from lands inappropriate for

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 27
Chapter 11 Definitions


development to Receiving Sites defined in this Land Use Code. The incentives for the use of
TDR rights include floor area intensity bonuses and GMQS exemptions.

INDIRECT LIGHTING means a reflected light source only and does not include internal
illumination or luminous materials.

INDUSTRIAL HEMP OR HEMP means the plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of the
plant, including the seeds and flowers of the plant and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids,
isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta-9
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of no more than three-tenths of one percent on a dry
weight basis.
INSTITUTE means an establishment performing research, teaching, and/or public outreach
activities, but that does not meet the definition of a Research Facility or a School or
University.

INTENSITY means a measurement of land development intensity, generally used for non-
residential uses, derived from a ratio of land area to building floor area. Density is measured
by dividing building floor area by total land area to arrive at a “floor area ratio”.

INTERIOR ENERGY STORAGE means any form of energy storage that is contained
within a residence.

INTERVAL ESTATE means a combination of: (i) an estate for years terminating on a date
certain, during which years title to a time share unit circulates a month the interval owners in
accordance with a fixed schedule, vesting in each such interval owner in turn for a period of
time established by the said schedule, with the series thus established recurring annually until
the arrival oft he date certain; and (ii) A vested future interest in the same unit, consisting of
an undivided interest in the remainder in fee simple, the magnitude of the future interest
having been established by the time of the creation of the interval estate either by the project
instruments or by the deed conveying the interval estate. The estate for years shall not be
deemed to merge with the future interest, but neither the estate for years nor the future
interest shall be conveyed or encumbered separately from the other. Interval estate also
means an estate for years where the remainder estate, as defined either by the project
instruments or by the deed conveying the interval estate, is retained by the developer or his
successors in interest.

JUNK YARD means a parcel of land used for the collecting, storing, or sale of waste paper,
rags, scrap metal, or discarded materials; or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, salvaging
or demolition of vehicles, machinery or other materials.

KENNEL OR VETERINARY CLINIC means an establishment that houses dogs, cats or
other household pets, where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or selling of animals is
conducted for compensation, or where animals and pets are admitted for examination and
medical treatment. This use also includes animal boarding facilities and animal rescue
shelters. Kennels use physical barriers such as chain-link fences in such a way that the dog,



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 28
Chapter 11 Definitions


cats, and other household pets cannot escape; so-called “invisible fences” do not qualify as
kennels.

KEY FACILITIES means:

        A.       Airports;

        B.       Major facilities of a public utility;

        C.       Interchanges involving arterial highways; and

        D.       Rapid or mass transit terminals, stations and fixed guideways.

KITCHEN means that portion of a structure that includes a stove, refrigerator, and sink.

LAND CLEARING OR GRUBBING means the effective removal of understory vegetation
from a site that does not include the removal of any trees with a diameter breast height
(D.B.H.) of greater than four (4) inches.


LANDSLIDE means falling, slipping or flowing of a mass of land from a higher to a lower
level. refers to the downward and outward movement of slope-forming materials including
soil, artificial fill, or a combination of these materials.


LEGALLY CREATED LOT OR PARCEL means a parcel or lot created and conveyed in
accordance with Pitkin County Subdivision regulations in effect at the time of creation and/or
conveyance.

LEGALLY CREATED STRUCTURE means any structure built in compliance with all
necessary Pitkin County permits and land use approvals required at the time of construction.

LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F) – FEMA’s modification of
the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.


LIGHT INDUSTRIAL means a use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage, sales and distribution of such
products. Such use must be capable of operation ins such a manner as to control the external
effects of the manufacturing process, such as smoke, noise, soot, dirt, vibration, odor, etc.
All outdoor storage associated with the use must be shielded from view from surrounding
properties.

LIVESTOCK means domesticated animals kept or raised for use, pleasure or profit,
including poultry, or any bovine, caprine, equine, ovine or suine animal, except those animals
commonly kept as household pets, such as but not limited to dogs and cats.


Pitkin County Land Use Code           CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 29
Chapter 11 Definitions


LIVESTOCK RUN-IN OR LOAFING SHED means a three-sided building used solely for
livestock protection.

LOCAL GOVERNMENT JURISDICTIONAL SIGN (applicable to incorporated
municipalities only) means a sign that announces the entry into or proximity of a local
governmental jurisdiction and assists the public in locating that jurisdiction.

LOCAL STREETS means those roads not defined as arterial highways, major roads, or
collector streets in this Land Use Code.

LOGGING means the removal, damaging, or destruction of more than forty (40) trees or
similar woody vegetation with a diameter breast height (D.B.H.) of six (6) inches or more per
acre of land; removal of thirty (30) percent of the trees or similar woody vegetation per acre
of land; harvesting of firewood or logs for commercial sale; tree removal within wetlands or
riparian areas; land clearing (including but not limited to clear-cutting), and grubbing.

LOGO means an artistic design or portrayal painted or otherwise placed on a building wall
or structure that is visible from any outside area and that is used, intended or designed to
identify, advertise or promote the interests of any private or public firm, person, organization,
service or product.

LOT means a parcel of land shown with a separate and distinct number or letter on a legally
recorded plat in the office of the Pitkin County Clerk and Recorder.

LOT AREA – see Sec. 5-20-10.

LOT DEPTH means the shortest horizontal distance between the front and rear lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.

LOT LINE, FRONT means the property boundary line dividing a lot from the street. If no
street, or more than one street, abuts the lot, then the front lot line means the property
boundary line from which road access is obtained.

LOT LINE, REAR means the property boundary line opposite the front lot line.

LOT LINE, SIDE means any property boundary lines other than front or rear lot lines.

LOT WIDTH means the distance between the side lot lines measured congruent with the
front yard setback line.

LOWEST FLOOR means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building’s
lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 30
Chapter 11 Definitions


MAINSTREAM FLOODPLAIN means an area adjacent to a perennial stream that is
subject to periodic flooding.

MAJOR EXTENSIONS OF EXISTING SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS means
any modification of existing sewage treatment plants to increase hydrologic capacity or
upgrade treatment capability or any extension of existing main collector sewer lines or any
extensions to service a population of twenty (20) or more people or the equivalent thereof in
commercial or industrial wastewater.

MAJOR NEW DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEMS OR MAJOR EXTENSIONS OF
EXISTING DOMESTIC WATER SYSTEMS means any new collection, pumping,
storage or treatment facilities and any service line six (6) inches or greater in diameter or any
combination of service lines serving a population of twenty (20) or more people or the
equivalent amount thereof in commercial or industrial water service.

MAJOR NEW SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM means any public sewage treatment
system including all sewer lines and treatment facilities used in the collection and treatment
of wastewater.

MAJOR ROADS means those roads identified as major roads by Pitkin County, including:

        A.       Highway 82 east of Aspen to the County line;

        B.       Castle Creek Road;

        C.       Maroon Creek Road;

        D.     County Road 19 (from the Slaughter House Bridge to Highway 82 across the
        Smith Bridge);

        E.       Crystal River Road (State Road 133);

        F.       Owl Creek Road.

MAJOR UTILITY LINES means an electric utility line with capacity over 115 KV, or a
water or sewer line more than twelve (12) inches in diameter.

MANUFACTURED HOME means a factory-built single family residence that is
manufactured or constructed in compliance with 42 USC §5401, but that is not constructed or
equipped with a permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved, other than for the
purpose of moving to a permanent site, and that does not have permanently attached to its
body or frame any wheels or axles.

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.




Pitkin County Land Use Code           CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 31
Chapter 11 Definitions


MASS TRANSIT means a coordinated system of transit modes providing transportation for
use by the general public.

MATTERS OF STATE INTEREST means an area of State interest or an activity of State
interest, or both.

MAXIMUM EXTENT FEASIBLE means that all possible efforts to comply with the
regulation or minimize potential harm or adverse impacts have been undertaken. Economic
considerations may be taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor in determining
“maximum extent feasible.”

MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE means under the circumstances, that reasonable
efforts have been undertaken to comply with the regulation or requirement, that the costs of
compliance clearly outweigh the potential benefits to the public or would unreasonably
burden the proposed project and that reasonable steps have been undertaken to minimize any
potential harm or adverse impacts resulting from noncompliance.

MAXIMUM PROBABLE ROCKFALL means the largest rockfall event that may be
expected from the most severe combination of geological and terrain conditions that are
reasonably possible.

MEDICAL OR DENTAL CLINIC means a facility for a group of one or more physicians
or dentists for the examination and treatment of human outpatients, provided that patients are
not kept overnight except under emergency conditions, regardless of whether such facility is
operated on a for profit or non-profit basis. This definition includes facilities for physical
therapy, massage therapy, chiropractors, and similar uses.

MEETING HALL OR CONFERENCE CENTER means a facility for the holding of
events, including but not limited to, meetings, group gatherings, weddings, receptions,
conferences, seminars, and educational courses that do not meet the definition of a school or
university, on an occasional basis. Typical accessory uses include food preparation and
eating, recreation, entertainment, and meeting rooms.

MERGER means that a lot or parcel is inseparably a part of another lot, parcel, or
subdivision and cannot be severed from it or separated out into a new lot, parcel, or
subdivision without the prior approval of Pitkin County.

MINERAL means an inanimate constituent of the earth, in either solid, liquid or gaseous
state that, when extracted from the earth, is usable in its natural form or is capable of
conversion into usable form as a metal, a metallic compound, a chemical, an energy source, a
raw material for manufacturing, or construction material. This definition does not include
surface or ground water subject to appropriation for domestic, agricultural or industrial
purposes, nor does it include geothermal resources.

MINERAL AND GRAVEL EXTRACTION means the exploration for and removal of
natural mineral deposits of limestone used for construction purposes, coal, sand gravel, and
quarry aggregate by removing the overburden lying above such deposits and mining directly


Pitkin County Land Use Code       CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                  Page 32
Chapter 11 Definitions


from the deposits thereby exposed. The term includes but is not limited to open cut mining,
open pit mining, strip mining, quarrying and dredging, and the operation of concrete batch
plants.

MICRO HYDROELECTRIC ENERGY SYSTEM means a small (up to 500 kw) electric
generation system that relies on natural surface water flows for the purpose of electric energy
generation. These facilities do not rely on use of a dam, water storage, or other man-made
impoundment which would impede minimum stream flows.

MINERAL EXPLORATION means prospecting and exploration stages of mining. The
prospecting stage involves the initial search for an area that may contain mineral deposits.
This search utilizes geological, geophysical, geochemical and topographical surveys. The
exploration stage involves a review of an area to determine whether it contains mineral
reserves in a quantity that could be commercially mined. This stage utilizes preliminary
drilling and trenching to obtain samples of ore deposits or to remove samples for testing.

MINERAL RESOURCE AREA means an area in which minerals are located in sufficient
concentration in veins, deposits, bodies, beds, fields, pools or otherwise, as to be capable of
economic recovery. The term includes, but is not limited to, any area in which there has been
significant mining activity in the past, there is significant mining activity in the present,
mining development is planned or in progress, or mineral rights are held by mineral permit or
valid mining claim with the intention of mining.

MINIMUM USABLE OPEN SPACE See Sec. 5-20-90 and Table 5-1.

MOBILE HOME means a structure transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling unit, with or without permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, including the plumbing, heating, and electrical
systems contained in the structure, and that does not meet the requirements of 42 USC
§5401. The term does not include pick up campers, travel trailers, motor homes, recreational
vehicles, converted busses, tent trailers, or other transportable structures designed for
temporary use. Structures that meet the requirements of 42 USC §5401 are Manufactured
Homes rather than Mobile Homes.

MOBILE HOME PARK means any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes occupied or intended to be occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located for
any period of time, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations
and whether or not the mobile home and/or land are owned by the occupants.

MOBILE HOME PARK (MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION)
means any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes occupied or intended to
be occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located for any period of time, regardless
of whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations and whether or not the mobile
home and/or land are owned by the occupants.




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 33
Chapter 11 Definitions


MOTION DETECTOR means a mechanism that turns on lights only when activated by
motion and will remain on during the activity and for a set period of time (typically less than
thirty (30) minutes) following the last detection of motion.

MUDFLOW means the downward movement of mud in a mountain watershed because of
peculiar characteristics of extremely high sediment yield and occasional high runoff.

MULTIPLE COMPLETION WELL, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction,
means a well equipped to produce oil and/or gas separately from more than one reservoir.

NATURAL GRADE means the natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
development. If it shall be determined that the natural grade has been disturbed immediately
prior to development, the Community Development Director shall establish what had been
the natural grade.

NATURAL HAZARD means a steep slope, geologic hazard, a wildfire hazard, or a flood
hazard.

NATURAL HAZARD AREA means an area containing or directly affected by a natural
hazard.

NATURAL RESOURCES OF STATEWIDE IMPORTANCE means areas limited to
shorelands of major publicly owned reservoirs and significant wildlife habitats in which the
wildlife species, as identified by the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural
Resources, in a proposed area could be endangered.

NEIGHBORHOOD means the area adjacent to or surrounding existing or proposed
development characterized by common use or uses, density, style and age of structures and
environmental characteristics.

NET ALLOWABLE DENSITY means that density allowed in the appropriate zone district,
reduced by any offset otherwise provided for in the Pitkin County Land Use Code (e.g., for
slope density reduction), exclusive of the density associated with any deed-restricted housing
that is provided according to this Land Use Code.

NET LIVABLE SQUARE FOOTAGE is a calculation used to determine the interior living
area of an affordable housing unit, including caretaker and employee dwelling units, which is
more specifically defined in the Aspen/Pitkin County employee housing guidelines, as
amended from time to time.

NEW CONSTRUCTION means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes, “new construction”
means structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective
date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 34
Chapter 11 Definitions


NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION means a manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the initial
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring
of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.


NONCONFORMING LOT. See SUBSTANDARD SIZE LOT.

NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE means any building or structure that was established
pursuant to the zoning and building laws in effect at the time of its development, but that is
no longer in compliance with the regulations imposed by this Land Use Code. A structure
that meets the requirements of this Land Use Code, but that contains a use that is not
permitted in the zone district in which it is located, is not a non-conforming structure, but
rather a conforming structure with a non-conforming use.

NONCONFORMING USE means any use of land, building or structure that was
established pursuant to the zoning and building laws in effect at the time of its development,
but which use is no longer permitted under the regulations imposed by this Land Use Code
for the zone district in which it is located. A use that is permitted by this Land Use Code that
occurs in a structure that is not in conformance with this Land Use Code is not a non-
conforming use, but rather a conforming use in a non-conforming strutcture.

NON-MOTORIZED MINERAL EXPLORATION means stream-panning using non-
motorized equipment, collection of rock or ore samples for assay using non-motorized
equipment or excavation of prospect holes using hand tools.

NON-RESIDENT, when used in the context of affordable/employee housing, shall mean
someone who is not a resident as defined in the employee housing guidelines.

NORDIC SKI AREAS AND SUPPORT FACILITIES means a primary use of land that
includes an area of land used for cross-country skiing and related activities, including those
structures and facilities necessary to prepare, maintain, and operate cross-country skiing
facilities and to serve those involved in the sport. Motorized use of the trail is not permitted,
except for trail grooming. Non-commercial nordic ski trails or private use trails are
permitted as accessory uses in most zone districts where this use is not permitted as a
principal use.

NO-RISE CERTIFICATION – A record of the results of an engineering analysis
conducted to determine whether a project will increase flood heights in a floodway. A No-
Rise Certification must be supported by technical data and signed by a registered Colorado
Professional Engineer. The supporting technical data should be based on the standard step-
backwater computer model used to develop the 100-year floodway shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM).




Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 35
Chapter 11 Definitions


NORMAL MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF A NON-CONFORMITY means any
work done in a period of twelve (12) consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing.

NOXIOUS WEEDS means any alien, introduced, or undesirable plant species that infests
either land or water resources and causes physical and economic damage and may threaten
local native plant species.

NURSING, CONVALESCENT, REST, OR RETIREMENT HOME means a health
facility used for or customarily occupied by persons recovering from or suffering from
infirmities of age, that may provide meals, lodging, and continuing nursing care for
compensation. This use generally provides a higher level of nursing care and living
assistance than that provided by a Group Home. This term also includes assisted living
facilities that are customarily occupied by persons recovering from or suffering from the
infirmities of age, in which residents are provided assistance with daily living activities but
are not provided with nursing care.

OFF-STREET PARKING means land anywhere except public right-of-way, that is used for
the purpose of parking, storing, or displaying motor vehicles, trailers, motorcycles, mobile
homes, and similar items. Off-street parking shall be paved with an all-weather surface or be
covered with gravel and maintained in usable condition at all times.

OFFICE means a use where business, professional, or governmental services are made
available to the public. It includes a building for use by those such as realtors, travel,
advertising or insurance agents, and property managers providing both products and services.
An office shall also include the home office of a company that sells products at retail or
wholesale, or that provides professional services. In addition, it includes a building for use
by those such as lawyers, architects, engineers, accountants, and other professionals who
primarily provide services rather than products. It does not include medical or dental clinics
or financial institutions.

OFFICE AND CLINIC USES means those uses of land and facilities used to conduct
business or to provide professional services or treatment in an indoor office setting. This is a
Use Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Financial
Institution”, “Medical or Dental Clinic”, “Office”, “Research Facility”, and other uses that
the Community Development Director determines belong in this Use Category.

OFFICER OR OFFICIAL means an officer or official of the City of Aspen, Pitkin County
or the State of Colorado.

OFFICIAL ZONE DISTRICT MAP means the official map authorized in Sec. 1-80
establishing the zone districts in Pitkin County, as amended from time to time.

O.G.C.C. means the Oil and Gas Conservation Commission of the State of Colorado.

OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION means the exploration for and removal of oil and gas from
the ground by drilling and/or pumping.


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 36
Chapter 11 Definitions


OIL AND GAS FACILITIES means:

        A.     An individual well site built and operated to produce petroleum and/or natural
        gas (methane), including auxiliary equipment required for such production, i.e.,
        separators, dehydrators, pumping units, tank batteries, and other equipment located
        within the perimeter of the well site pad, employing engines or motors with a
        cumulative horsepower rating of less than two hundred (200) bhp.

        B.     Gas gathering lines and water collection lines serving oil and gas facilities,
        including trunk and lateral lines.

        C.      Facilities associated with gas gathering lines and water collection lines, such
        as: drip stations, vent stations, pigging facilities, chemical injection stations, transfer
        pump stations and valve box, where such equipment or facilities employ engines or
        motors with a cumulative horsepower rating of less than two hundred (200) bhp.

        D.    An individual well head compression and multiple well compression facility
        powered by motors or engines with a cumulative horsepower rating of less than two
        hundred (200) bhp,

        E.       Storage yards or construction staging areas occupying one (1) acre or less.

        F.    Compressor stations and associated facilities that serve multiple wells
        employing engines and/or motors with a cumulative horsepower rating of two
        hundred (200) bhp or more.

        G.       Water injection stations and associated facilities.

        H.     Storage yards and construction staging yards that occupy an area of one (1) or
        more acres.

        I.     Any facility related to the production of oil and/or gas that contains engines
        and/or motors with a cumulative horsepower rating of two hundred (200) bhp or
        more.

        J.       Gas treating facilities that serve multiple wells or gathering systems.

        K.       Pipelines for which the power of eminent domain is available.

OPEN MINING means the mining of natural mineral deposits of limestone used for
construction purposes, coal, sand gravel, and quarry aggregate by removing the overburden
lying above such deposits and mining directly from the deposits thereby exposed. The term
includes, but is not limited to, such practices as open cut mining, open pit mining, strip
mining, quarrying and dredging.

OPERATING PLAN, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a general
description of a facility identifying purpose, use, typical staffing pattern, seasonal or periodic



Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 37
Chapter 11 Definitions


considerations, routine hours of operating, source of services/infrastructure, and any other
information related to regular functioning of that facility.

OPERATOR, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means that individual or
firm engaged in all or a portion of the extraction operations at a well or other facility; usually
the lessee of the mineral estate, although day-to-day operations may be contracted to another
firm.

ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK means that line on the shore established by the
fluctuations of water and indicated by physical characteristics such as a clear, natural line
impressed on the bank, shelving, changes in the character of soil, destruction of terrestrial
vegetation, the presence of litter and debris, or other appropriate means that consider the
characteristics of the surrounding areas.


OTHER PRINCIPAL USES means commercial or industrial uses that are permitted by
right or by special review in various zone districts, but do not fit other commercial or
industrial use categories as defined in this Land Use Code. This is a Use Category that
includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Cellular Telephone Facility”, “Junk
Yard”, “Radio or TV Transmitting Station”, “Use by Federal Permit”, and other “Uses Not
Listed” that the Community Development Director determines belong in this Use Category.

OUTDOOR RECREATION, OTHER means a use of land that includes a temporary or
continuing outdoor recreation activity not listed as a separate use in this Land Use Code,
including but not limited to outfitting and guide services for hunters, fishermen, and hikers,
as well as ecotourism uses consistent with other requirements of this Land Use Code,
whether provided on a commercial or non-commercial basis. Individuals engaged in outdoor
recreational uses unrelated to an outfitter or guide service are excluded from this definition.
Rifle ranges and shooting ranges are excluded from this use. Outdoor camping areas that are
an accessory use of land, or that provide temporary accommodation on a non-commercial
basis, are included in the definition of Camping Areas.

OVERALL RANGE means the area that encompasses all known seasonal activity areas
within the observed range of a bighorn sheep, elk and/or mule deer population.

OVERBURDEN means all of the earth and other materials that lie above natural mineral
deposits of limestone used for construction purposes, coal, sand, gravel and quarry aggregate
and also such earth and other materials disturbed from their natural state in the process of
open mining.

OWNER means any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint
tenant or tenant by the entirety with concurrent legal or beneficial title to the whole or to part
of a building or land.

PARCEL OF LAND means any quantity of land and water that is capable of being
described with such precision that its location and boundaries may be established, and that is
designated by its owner or developer as land to be used or developed as a unit, or that has
been used or developed as a unit.

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 38
Chapter 11 Definitions


PARK means publicly owned lands used for active or passive recreational purposes or as a
refuge for wildlife.

PARK, PLAYGROUND OR PLAYFIELD means a tract of land designated for use by the
public for active or passive recreation.

PASTURE means land covered with grass or other native or cultivated plants that is used for
grazing livestock.

PEREGRINE FALCON ACTIVE NEST SITE means a specific location in which a pair
of peregrines has at least attempted to nest within the last five (5) years. Any nest location
that can be directly tied to courtship, breeding, or brooding behavior is considered active.

PERSON means an individual, corporation, governmental agency or body, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership, association, two (2) or more persons having a joint or common
interest, or any other entity.

PERSONAL SERVICE OUTLETS means establishments that provide services and goods
related to household living or everyday needs. Examples of personal service outlets include
post office substations, self-service laundries, dry-cleaning collection and distribution
stations, barber and beauty shops, shoe repair shops, grocery, drug and liquor and photo
studios, and internet service access points,.

PHOTOCELL means a mechanism that is activated by sunlight, turning lights on at dusk
and off at dawn to illuminate an area for the entire night.

PLANNED COMMUNITY means a common interest community that is not a
condominium or cooperative. A condominium or cooperative may be part of a planned
community.

PLAT means a surveyed and scale-drawn map and supporting materials of certain described
land, subdivisions, and sections prepared as an instrument for recording of real estate
interests with the County Clerk and Recorder showing the location of lots and streets and
other details as required by this Land Use Code.

POLLUTION, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means the contamination
or other degradation of the physical, chemical or biological properties of water or air,
including change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity or odor, or such discharge of any
liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive or other substance into water or air as will or is likely to
create a nuisance or render such water or air harmful, detrimental or injurious to public
health, safety or welfare, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or
other beneficial uses, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish or other aquatic life.

POTENTIALLY UNSTABLE SLOPES means slopes that equal or exceed a thirty (30)
percent gradient, which tend to be susceptible to a landslide, a mudflow, a rock fall, and/or
accelerated creep of slope-forming materials.




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 39
Chapter 11 Definitions


PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE means an informal conference held between the
staff and an applicant for any land use application. The conference is for the purpose of
obtaining information and guidance prior to formal filing of the application and may be held
jointly or individually with any member of the local reviewing staff as such are
recommended by the Community Development Department.

PRESERVATION SITE means one type of Sending Site for transferable development
rights, as defined in Sec. 6-70.

PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE means the building or structure in which the
principal use of a parcel of land is conducted. A principal building maintains heated,
enclosed access between various building components.

PRINCIPAL USE means the main purpose of activity for which land or any building
thereon is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.

PRODUCING (IN PRODUCTION), when used in the context of oil and gas extraction,
means the development stage in which marketable oil and gas are extracted from a well; it
may also signify the extraction level at which the quantitative terms of the lease are fulfilled.

PROJECT-RELATED IMPROVEMENTS mean those road capital improvements and
right-of-way dedications that provide direct access to the development. Direct access
improvements are typically located within or adjacent to a development site and include but
are not limited to the following: (a) driveways and streets leading to and from the
development; (b) right and left turn lanes leading to those driveways and streets; (c) traffic
control measures for those driveways; and (d) internal streets.

PROSPECTING. See MINERAL EXPLORATION.

PUBLIC FACILITIES means major capital improvements, including but not limited to,
transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water, education, and parks and
recreation facilities, as well as those uses included in the definitions of major public facilities,
major public utilities, and minor public utilities in this Land Use Code.

PUBLIC FACILITIES, MAJOR, means a large or specialized public facility owned by a
government agency or non-profit entity and necessary to provide public health or safety
services to the citizens of the County. Specific uses include, but are not limited to, (a)
emergency medical response facilities; (b) landfills; (c) detention facilities; (d) a wind
powered electric generator with a rated capacity of 250 KW or greater; and (e) the following
types of uses as defined or referred to in C.R.S. 24-65.1-104: arterial highway; collector
highway; interchanges involving arterial highways; rapid transit terminals, stations, or fixed
guideways.

PUBLIC LANDS FOR DEDICATION AND OWNERSHIP means parks, playground,
schools, drainage channels, trails, highways, roads and streets, or other areas of land to be
dedicated to public use and requiring acceptance by the Board.



Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                        Page 40
Chapter 11 Definitions


PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY means a right-of-way dedicated or appropriated to the general
public.

PUBLIC UTILITIES, MAJOR, means a public utility facility typically serving a
significant subarea of the County that normally requires the construction of new buildings or
structures, and that often has employees at the site. This use includes, but is not limited to,
the following types of uses as defined or referred to in C.R.S. 24-65.1-104: domestic water
and sewage treatment system; transmission line, power plants, or substations of electric
utilities (excluding distribution lines); and pipelines and storage areas of utilities providing
natural gas or other petroleum derivatives (other than pipelines providing services to no more
than ten (10) single family dwellings). Major utility facilities have potentially significant
impacts on an area of the County by virtue of their appearance, noise, size, traffic generation,
externalities, or other operational characteristics. Specific uses include, but are not limited to
(1) Activities related to the construction of any electric power line over one hundred fifteen
(35) KV; (2) Activities related to the extension of domestic water and sewage treatment
systems to any area that previously did not have such systems; and (3) Water transmission,
storage, or distribution systems.

PUBLIC UTILITIES, MINOR means the development or maintenance by public utilities
or the County of a utility facility that does not qualify as a major public utility, and
specifically including underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, and fuel
facilities, including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes connecting individual
homes or structures to existing water or sewer facilities, conduits, cables, fire alarm and
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and similar equipment.

QUIET ZONE means the area within one-half (1/2) mile of a school, hospital, institution of
learning, court, rest home or other designated area where exceptional quiet is necessary,
while the such places are in use.

RADIO OR TV TRANSMITTING STATION means a facility for the transmission of
radio and/or television signals, with or without a tower.

RADIOACTIVITY means a condition related to various types of radiation emitted by
radioactive materials that occur in natural deposits of rock, soil and water.

RANCHING means the practice of keeping livestock on fields for the purpose of grazing
and feeding. Confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) are not included in this definition.

RAPID TRANSIT means the element of a mass transit system involving a mechanical
conveyance on an exclusive lane or guideway constructed solely for that purpose.

RAPTOR ACTIVE NEST SITE means a specific location in which a pair of hawks, owls,
or falcons other than eagles or peregrine falcons, has at least attempted to nest within the last
five (5) years. Any nest location that can be directly tied to courtship, breeding, or brooding
behavior is considered active.

RARE AND/OR IMPERILED SPECIES means those plant communities and animal
species ranked G3, S3, G2, S2, G1 or S1 by the Colorado Natural Heritage program.

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 41
Chapter 11 Definitions


        A.     G/S1 means critically imperiled globally/state because of rarity (five (5) or
        fewer occurrences in the world/state); or very few remaining individuals; or because
        of some factor of its biology making it especially vulnerable to extinction.

        B.      G/S2 means imperiled globally/state because of rarity (six (6) to twenty (20)
        occurrences), or because of other factors demonstrably making it very vulnerable to
        extinction throughout its range.

        C.     G/S3 Vulnerable through its range or found locally in a restricted range
        (twenty-one (21) to one hundred (100) occurrences).

RECEIVING SITE means a parcel of land to which development rights are transferred
within Pitkin County in accordance with the standards, criteria and procedures of Secs. 2-40-
30 and 6-70.

RECONSTRUCTION means the re-establishment or reassembly of an existing structure in
the same or a different location on the property.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE means a vehicle which is:

        1.       built on a single chassis;
        2.       400 sf or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
        3.       designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
                 and
        4.       designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a temporary
                 living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

REDSTONE “A” LOTS means those areas within the “A” Lots created pursuant to
Resolution No.77-15 and so designated in the Revised Plat and Addition to a portion of the
Redstone Subdivision recorded in Book 5 at Page 65.

REFERRAL AGENCIES means any agencies or person who may, in the opinion of the
Community Development Department or the Board, be affected by the proposal or be
otherwise competent to provide relevant information or analysis concerning the potential
impacts of the proposal.

RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION means a facility used primarily for non-profit purposes by a
legally established faith organization to provide assembly and meeting areas for religious
activities. Accessory uses include parking, caretaker’s housing, buildings ancillary to a
religious function, pastor’s housing, and group living facilities, such as convents. Examples
include but are not limited to churches, temples, synagogues, mosques, and monasteries.

REMODELING means the renovation of an existing structure that does not change: (a) the
original size or location of the footprint of the structure; (b) the use of the structure; or (c) the
floor area of the structure.




Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 42
Chapter 11 Definitions


REPLACEMENT means the complete removal of all or a portion of a structure and
substitution of the original structure with a new structure. A replacement structure may
change the original size and location of the footprint of the structure.

RESEARCH FACILITY means facilities where research is performed, research programs
are tested,and written research findings are produced, and that includes activities that do not
meet the definition of an office. Accessory facilities for the manufacture, fabrication,
processing, or assembly of products used in such research, or in support of such research, are
permitted. This definition does not include general laboratories for testing chemical,
electronic, or other products or facilities where manufacture, fabrication, processing, or
assembly activities predominate over related research activities.

RESIDENT, when used in context of affordable housing, means a resident as defined in the
employee housing guidelines.

RESIDENTIAL USE means used or intended for use exclusively for dwelling purposes, but
not including hotel or lodge rooms.

RESORT CABIN means a building designed for temporary recreational purposes in rural
mountainous terrain and used to accommodate individuals on a term occupancy basis. If a
resort cabin contains a bath and kitchen, then it must comply with the density requirements of
the underlying zoning.

RESOURCE USES means those land uses, activities, and structures used to remove timber,
minerals, gravel, oil and/or gas from the ground in accordance with all applicable laws and
regulations. This is a Use Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the following:
“Logging”, “Mineral and Gravel Extraction”, “Oil and Gas Extraction”, and other uses that
the Community Development Director determines belong in this Use Category.

RESTAURANT OR BAR means an establishment where food and drink are prepared,
served, and consumed primarily within the principal building, and where alcoholic beverages
may be served if the operator has a valid license permitting the sale of such beverages.

RESTORATION means the bringing back to an unimpaired condition of an existing
structure in the same location on the property.

RETAIL SALE OF GOODS means drug, book, delicatessen, stationery, liquor, florist, or
specialty apparel shops, sporting goods, hardware, radio and TV stores, electronic stores, or
any other place where goods are sold to the public at retail, and that are not listed as a
separate use (for example, are not listed as a Personal Service Outlet) in this Land Use Code.

RETAINING PIT, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means earthen
excavation used for the purpose of retaining or storing substances associated with the drilling
or operation of oil and gas wells.

REVIEWING BODY means a board, commission, agency, or group that is authorized by
this Land Use Code to review a development approval or building permit application and to
make a recommendation, but not a final decision, regarding the application. A given board,

Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                   Page 43
Chapter 11 Definitions


commission, agency, or group may be a reviewing body for purposes of some types of
applications and a decision-making body for purposes of other types of applications.

RIDGELINE means the highest elevation, or apparent highest elevation of a hill or
mountain, or part of a hill or mountain, when viewed from a defined vantage point.

RIDING STABLES OR ACADEMIES means a principal use of land that includes a parcel
of land and related structures used for providing horse riding lessons, or for providing an area
where individuals can ride horses independently, as well as related facilities necessary for the
operation and maintenance of those land areas and facilities regardless of whether such
activities are provided on a commercial or non-commercial basis. Horse boarding may be
provided as an accessory use.

RIGHT-OF-WAY means the land on which facilities, such as roads, railroads, canals,
utilities, and other similar uses exist or may be constructed.

RIPARIAN HABITAT means plant communities contiguous to and affected by surface and
subsurface hydrologic features of perennial or intermittent lotic and lentic water bodies
(rivers, streams, lakes, or drainage ways). Riparian areas have one (1) or both of the
following characteristics: a) distinctly different vegetative species than adjacent areas, and b)
species similar to adjacent areas but exhibiting more vigorous or robust growth forms.
Riparian areas are often transitional between wetland and upland.

RIVER means the Roaring Fork, Crystal, and/or Frying Pan Rivers.

ROAD CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT means transportation planning, preliminary
engineering, engineering design studies, land surveys, alignment studies, right-of-way
acquisition, engineering, permitting, and construction of all necessary features for any road
construction project on a road in the County’s road system, undertaken to accommodate
traffic resulting from new traffic-generating development.

ROCKFALL means rapid free-falling, bounding, sliding, or rolling of large masses of rock
or individual rocks.

ROCKFALL ENERGY RATING means a measure of destructive energy based on the size
and velocity of an individual rock at a specific location per European Test and Approval
Guideline (ETAG) 027.

ROCKFALL HIGH HAZZARD AREA means any area where a site specific rockfall
assessment identifies frequent rockfalls which pose a significant threat to public safety; or
where the rockfall energy rating of the maximum probably rockfall is likely to exceed 2000
kilojoules or exceeds 4.0m (13.1 feet) bounce height.

ROCKFALL LOW-MODERATE HAZARD AREA means any area where there is no
historic or vegetative evidence of frequent rockfall events that pose significant risks to public
safety; or where the rockfall energy rating of the maximum probable rockfall is likely to be
less than 2000 kilojoules or a bounce height of less than 4.0 meters (13.1 feet).


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 44
Chapter 11 Definitions


ROCKFALL SHADOW ANGLE is the angle from horizontal from the base of a cliff band
or outcrop to the location of the maximum rockfall runout potential.




ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTOR means any solar energy collector
that is directly attached to a building via any ancillary development (racking assembly,
balancing system, utility boxes, etc.)

RURAL means country-like or agricultural. Rural areas are generally characterized by large
open spaces, lower density residential development and agricultural uses.

RURAL AREA means (1) for purposes of the Growth Management Quota System,
unincorporated Pitkin County excluding the area comprised of the Aspen Urban Growth
Boundary, and (2) for other purposes, that part of the unincorporated area of Pitkin County
located outside of the defined urban growth boundaries of Aspen, Snowmass, Basalt, and
Carbondale.

SALES AND SERVICE USES means a use category that includes a parcel of land or
structure used to sell new or used goods to the public, either at retail or otherwise, or to
service or repair goods (not including vehicles or equipment). Operations are generally in an
indoor environment, but may include outdoor storage for inventory, supplies or equipment.
In the case of of arts and crafts studios, it includes the creation of those goods offered for
sale. This is a Use Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Arts
and Craft Studio”, “Building Materials and Landscaping”, “General Services”, “Personal
Service Outlet”, “Retail Sale of Goods”, and other uses that the Community Development
Director determines belong in this Use Category.

SATELLITE RECEPTION DEVICE means a satellite signal reception or transmission
device, that is used for the reception and/or transmission of satellite signals, including but not
limited to, television signals, AM and/or FM radio signals, telemetry signals, data
communications signals, or any other reception or transmission signals using free air space as
a medium, whether for commercial or private use.

SCHOOL OR UNIVERSITY means a legally created and publicly or privately owned
facility providing education to the public, or to patrons either free of charge or for a fee.
Examples include public elementary, middle, and high schools; private or parochial
elementary, middle, and high schools, public or private colleges, trade or vocational schools,
martial arts, yoga, and art schools.



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 45
Chapter 11 Definitions


SECURITY FENCING when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a six (6)
foot chainlink fence topped by three strands of barbed wire, or the equivalent, with a gate that
can be secured.

SEISMIC EFFECTS means direct and indirect effects caused by an earthquake or an
underground detonation.

SENSITIVE SPECIES means those plant and animal species identified by the USFS
Region 2 Forester for which population viability is a concern, as evidenced by significant
current or predicted downward trends in habitat capability that would reduce a species’
existing distribution.

SEPARATE OWNERSHIP means that a lot or parcel is neither contiguous with nor
adjacent to another lot or parcel or real property owned by the same owner.

SERVICE YARD means any yard utilized for storage of material accessory to or used in
conjunction with the principal commercial use of a lot or structure.

SETBACK means the area between a structure and the property line of the lot on which the
structure is located. The setback shall be unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except for fences or as otherwise provided in this Land Use Code. In measuring a
setback, the horizontal distance between the lot line and the closest projection of a principal
or accessory building shall be used.

SEVERE WINTER RANGE means that part of the overall range where ninety (90) percent
of the bighorn sheep, elk and/or mule deer individuals are located when the annual snow
pack is at its maximum and/or temperatures are at a minimum in the two (2) worst winters
out of ten (10).

SEWAGE DISPOSAL AREA OR WATER PLANT means a public or private facility
owned by a public utility, by the County, by an entity under contract to a public utility or the
County, or by a special district formed for that purpose, and operated for the treatment of
water prior to consumption by humans, or for the treatment or disposal of waste and related
products.

SHORT TERM RENTAL as defined in the Pitkin County Short Term Rental Code, Title 6,
Chapter 6-50 of the Pitkin County Code.

SHUT-IN, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means to close a valve on a
well so that it stops producing.

SIDEWALK means that portion of the sidewalk area that is paved with an all-weather
surfacing for use by pedestrians.

SIDEWALK AREA means that portion of a street between the curb line or the lateral line of
a roadway, and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, including the
terms border area, parkway, park strip, planting strip, or similar designations.


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 46
Chapter 11 Definitions


SIGN means any object, device, display, symbol, light or structure, fixed to, painted on,
placed on or incorporated in the building surface or structure, or free-standing upon the site,
which is designed to be visible from outside and used, intended or designed to convey or
direct information or a message, or designed to convey or direct information or a message to
the public concerning the identification of the premises or to advertise or promote the
interests of any private or public firm, person, organization, service or product.

SIGN, FREE-STANDING means any sign that is permanently affixed to the ground, that is
self-supporting by a stand or legs or other self-supporting structure used solely for that sign,
and that is physically separated from any building or structure.

SIGN, OFF-SITE means a sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service,
entertainment, attraction, or product sold, offered or existing elsewhere than upon the same
lot where such sign is located. The term shall include outdoor advertising signs (billboards),
unless otherwise pre-empted by state or federal law.

SIGN, PORTABLE OR WHEELED means a sign not permanently affixed to the ground, a
building or other permanently affixed structure, which may be moved from place to place
and that may, but not necessarily, be mounted on wheels.

SIGN, PROJECTING means any sign, other than a free-standing sign, affixed to or
supported by a building or structure, which projects beyond the surface of that portion of the
building or structure to which it is affixed or supported by more than six (6) inches.

SIGN, ROOF means a sign created, placed or maintained in whole or in part upon, against,
or directly above the roof or parapet line of a building.

SIGN STRUCTURE means any structure that is designed specifically for the purpose of
supporting a sign, has supported, or is capable of supporting a sign. This definition shall
include any decorative covers, braces, wires, supports or components attached to or placed
around the sign structure. A building with a sign affixed to its exterior is not a sign structure.

SIGN, TEMPORARY means a non-permanent sign erected, affixed or maintained for a
short, usually fixed, period of time.

SIGN, WALL means any sign painted or placed on, incorporated in, or affixed to a building
wall, window or canopy, or any sign consisting of cut-out letters or devices affixed to a
building wall, window or canopy with no background defined on the building wall, window
or canopy, with the exposed face of the sign located in a place substantially parallel to the
wall, window or canopy surface on which it is placed.

SILTATION means a process that results in an excessive rate of removal of soil and rock
materials from one location and rapid deposit thereof in adjacent areas.

SILVICULTURE means the development and/or maintenance of a forest or wooded
preserve that does not meet the definition of logging.

SITE means one or more parcels with one or more structures.

Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 47
Chapter 11 Definitions


SITE PLAN means that plan described in Sec. 7-10-50.

SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN means a development plan described in Sec. 2-
20-170(b).

SKI AREA means all ski slopes and trails and other places under the control of a ski area
operator and administered as a single enterprise within the State of Colorado.

SKYLINE means, in the context of scenic view regulations, to project above a defined
ridgeline such that a structure silhouettes against the sky when viewed from one or more
defined vantage points.

SLOPE means the gradient of the ground surface that is definable by degree or percent.

SNOW DUMPING/TRUCK/STORAGE shall be defined as follows:

An activity in which a property owner accepts snow from off-site. The use of dump trucks
and other heavy equipment is involved with the moving of the snow.

SOIL means the relatively loose, incoherent earth material of whatever origin that overlies
bedrock.

SOLAR ACCESS means the accessibility of a parcel or building to sunshine allowing for
solar energy collection either actively or passively.

SOLAR ENERGY COLLECTOR means a device for the passive collection of solar energy
for use in the heating of water or the generation of electricity, together with related wires and
pipes necessary for operation.

SOLAR FACILITY means any ground-mounted solar generators that occupy one-quarter
(1/4) acre of land or more and generates two (2) Mega-Watts (MW) or more. Solar Facilities
are considered Major Public Utilities.

SOLAR FARM means any collection of ground-mounted solar generators that occupies
one-quarter (1/4) acre of land or more but generates less than two (2) Mega-Watts (MW).

SOUR GAS, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means natural gas
containing hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and is toxic if inhaled in amounts of 4.0 ppm or greater.

SPACING, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means acreage dedicated to
each well producing from the same formation. Spacing regulations are established by the
Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission.

SPECIAL EVENT means an organized group activity at one or more specified locations
which take place over a single day or several consecutive days at which a group of persons
may gather, with or without the payment of an admission charge. A special event that: (a)
takes place at a property or in a building or structure that has received a special review use
permit authorizing that type of event (such as a special events venue): (b) occurs as part of


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 48
Chapter 11 Definitions


the day-to-day operation of a school, religious center, community center, athletic field or
similar building/structure or site that was constructed and is primarily used as a place for
community gathering: or (c) is authorized in a ski area or public/institutional master plan,
shall not require a special events permit.

Special events include, but are not limited to, the following and similar activities:

        Athletic events, including organized races and competitive group activities;
        Entertainment events, including a concert, carnival, festival, or fair;
        Fund raiser;
        Trade show; and
        Wedding, block party, neighborhood gathering or similar type of group celebration.

SPECIAL EVENT COMMITTEE means an administrative group consisting of
representatives of those agencies involved in the special events permitting process or whose
resources may be impacted by the event. Agencies represented on the group may include,
but not be limited to the Pitkin County Sheriff, Fire Departments, Roaring Fork Transit
Agency, Community Development, Emergency Manager, and Environmental Health.

SPECIAL EVENTS VENUE means a parcel of land, building or structure that has not
otherwise been granted a land use approval to operate as a place of public assembly or for the
conduct of special events but which is used or intended to be used for special events more
than three (3) times during a calendar year.

SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD) is the
land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year.


SPRAWL means the continuous, haphazard, uncoordinated development outside of an
Urban Area that does not provide or properly plan for concentration of more intense uses and
the efficient and economical provision of public facilities and urban services. Sprawl
development tends to promote additional development, especially in connection with the
provision of public facilities and urban services.

STANDARD means a definite rule, principle, or measure established by authority, and with
which compliance is mandatory unless expressly waived or varied according to this Land
Use Code.

START OF CONSTRUCTION - The date the building permit was issued, including
substantial improvements, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 12 months of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets


Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 49
Chapter 11 Definitions


and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations
or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of
the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.


STATE OR FEDERALLY LISTED THREATENED OR ENDANGERED SPECIES
CRITICAL HABITAT means:

        A.      Specific areas within the geographical area. occupied by the species. at the
        time it is listed in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the Endangered
        Species Act (ESA). on which are found those physical or biological features
        (constituent elements) (a) essential to the conservation of the species and (b) that may
        require special management considerations or protection; and

        B.      Specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by the species at the
        time it is listed in accordance with the provisions of section 4 of the ESA, upon a
        determination by the Secretary of the Interior that such areas are essential for the
        conservation of the species. [ESA §3 (5)(A)] Designated critical habitats are
        described in 50 CFR §17 and 226.]

STREAM. See CREEK.

STREET means a public way, other than an alley, that affords the principal means of access
to abutting property, including private streets.

STREET, ARTERIAL See ARTERIAL STREET.

STREET, COLLECTOR See COLLECTOR STREET.

STREET, LOCAL See LOCAL STREET.

STRUCTURE means anything constructed, installed, or portable, that requires location on
the ground. It includes yurts and tepees and movable buildings that can be used for housing,
business, commercial, agricultural, or office purposes, either temporarily or permanently.
"Structure" also includes roads, walkways, paths, fences, swimming pools, tennis courts,
signs, sheds, and other accessory construction. "Structures" do not include fences or walls
used as fences as provided in subsection D of the definition of "Development" within this
section; poles, lines, cables, or other transmission or distribution facilities of public utilities;
bus shelters less than two hundred (200) square feet in size.

SUBALPINE AND ALPINE ECOSYSTEMS means those ecosystems in Pitkin County
which are located between nine thousand (9,000) to eleven thousand four hundred (11,400)
and eleven thousand four hundred (11,400) to fourteen thousand feet (14,000') in elevation,
respectively. The subalpine ecosystem includes forests dominated by Engelman spruce and
fir, that can be intermixed with distinct stands of lodgepole pine and aspen Douglas fir

Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                         Page 50
Chapter 11 Definitions


forests, and can also extend up into the lower limits of the subalpine environment. Meadows
are found throughout the subalpine zone and tend toward increasing soil moisture and
decreasing size with increasing elevation. The alpine tundra ecosystem is found above tree
limit, and is characterized by the absence of trees. Several distinct plant communities are
found in the alpine ecosystem, including low shrubs, cushion plants, small forbs and lush
meadows of sedges and grasses. Among other qualities, subalpine and alpine ecosystems
function to collect, store, filter and distribute water for all the in-stream, agricultural,
municipal, domestic, industrial and recreational purposes for which water is essential.

SUBDIVIDER OR DEVELOPER, for purposes of the subdivision of land, means the
person including the owner, or agent for the owner, dividing or proposing to divide land so as
to constitute a subdivision to be shown on a recorded plat.

SUBDIVISION OR SUBDIVIDED LAND means:

        A.      A tract or parcel of land that is divided into two (2) or more lots, tracts, sites,
        parcels, separate interests, interests in common, or other division, unless exempted
        pursuant to Chapter 2 of this Land Use Code. Interest means any and all interest in
        the surface of land (including leasehold interest) but excluding any and all subsurface
        interests. Included (not by way of limitation) within the definition of "subdivision" or
        "subdivided land" are:

               1.      A parcel of land to be used for the construction (for lease or sale) of a
        planned community (commercial or residential), apartments, or multi-family units,
        whether or not constructed on a previously subdivided lot or parcel (unless such land,
        when previously subdivided, was accompanied by a filing of an application for
        improvements (with substantially the same density) that complied with all provisions
        of the state subdivision law and County subdivision regulations and was approved
        thereunder).

               2.     A parcel of land to be used for the construction of a hotel, lodge, motel
        or dormitory.

               3.     A parcel of land to be used for a mobile home park without regard as
        to whether park spaces are to be leased or sold.

                4.      A parcel of land (not previously subdivided) to be used for the
        construction of two (2) or more commercial or industrial spaces for rent (without
        regard to the term of such leaseholds).

                5.      A parcel of land (with or without improvements) leased (for other than
        utility or roadway purposes) for a period (including renewal terms) of twenty (20)
        years or longer; provided, however, that no lands subject to such leaseholds created
        prior to the effective date hereof shall be deemed to have been subdivided merely by
        reason of such leasehold interest.




Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 51
Chapter 11 Definitions


              6.    The conversion of residential units into units capable of separate
        ownership in a planned community form, but not including timeshares,
        condominiums, or cooperatives.

        B.      No subdivision of land shall be deemed to have occurred merely by reason of
        the establishment of a public right-of-way (for access or utility purposes) across such
        land by the County or state government without regard as to whether such right-of-
        way was acquired by dedication or established by prescription, unless fee ownership
        of the public right-of-way has been conveyed to and accepted by the County, or has
        been conveyed to a third party for access or utility purposes with the consent of the
        County.

        C.       In the event that two or more contiguous parcels of land, previously separately
        conveyed (or described), shall come under single ownership, the division of such land
        into two (2) or more lots, tracts, sites, parcels, separate interests, interests in common,
        or other division, even if divided along the line of a previously described or conveyed
        parcel, shall constitute a subdivision of land. Nothing herein shall be deemed to apply
        to a lot shown on any recorded subdivision plat, unless such subdivision plat shall not
        have received those approvals required by state or local law.

        D.      Unless the method of disposition is adopted for the purposes of evading this
        definition, the terms "subdivision" and "subdivided land" as defined in subsection A
        shall not apply to any division of land:

                1.     That could be created by any court in this State pursuant to the law of
        eminent domain, or by operation of law, or by order of any court in this State if the
        Board of County Commissioners of the County in which the property is situated is
        given timely notice of any such pending action by the court and given opportunity to
        join as a party in interest in such proceedings for the purpose of raising the issue of
        evasion of the County's subdivision regulations prior to the entry of the court order
        and if the Board does not file an appropriate pleading within twenty (20) days after
        receipt of such notice by the court;

               2.        That is created by a lien, mortgage, deed of trust, or any other security
        instrument;

                3.    That is created by a security or unit of interest in any investment trust
        regulated under the laws of this State or any other interest in any investment entity;

                 4.      That creates cemetery lots;

               5.      That creates an interest in oil, gas, minerals, or water that is severed
        from the surface ownership or real property; or

                6.    That is created by the acquisition of an interest in land in the name of
        the husband and wife or other persons in joint tenancy, or as tenants in common, and
        any such interest shall be deemed for the purpose of this definition as only one
        interest.

Pitkin County Land Use Code          CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                       Page 52
Chapter 11 Definitions


                  7.      That creates parcels of land, each of which comprises thirty-five (35)
           or more acres of land and none of which is intended for use by multiple owners.

                  8.      That creates legally separate real estate interests through creation of
           condominiums pursuant to C.R.S. 33-33.3-101, et seq. or Section 38-33-101, et. seq.,
           cooperatives pursuant to C.R.S. 33-33.3-101, et. seq. or Section 33-33.5-101, et. seq.
           and timeshares pursuant to C.R.S. 38-33-111, as those provisions may be amended or
           replaced from time to time. The creation of these interests shall not result in the
           subdivision of land, the creation of legally separate lots, nor shall it be considered an
           event of subdivision.

SUBSTANDARD SIZE LOT means any lot or parcel, no matter what the size, that does not
meet the minimum requirements for lot width or area as set forth in this Land Use Code,
when a building permit is sought.

SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50
percent of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvements of a structure, that cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the
market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:

    1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or
          local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
          the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary
          conditions or
    2. Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude
          the structure’s continued designation as a “histories structure”.


SUBURBAN means a predominantly low-density residential area and/or small-scale
commercial area located immediately outside of and physically and socio-economically
associated with an urban area, municipality or a city.

SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT means an improvement to a public road planned and
scheduled on the Pitkin County 20-Year Road Improvement Plan.

TEMPORARY LAND USES AND ACTIVITIES means a use that is established for a
limited duration of time with the intent to discontinue the use at the end of that time period so
the use does not become a permanent land use or activity. By way of example, temporary
land uses and activities:

     (a)     May be required during the construction phase of development (such as a
            construction trailer);or


Pitkin County Land Use Code            CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                        Page 53
Chapter 11 Definitions


     (b)   May be uniquely seasonal in nature (such as a farm stand, holiday tree stand or
           farmer’s market).

Filming of a movie, television show, commercial or promotional spot and still photo shoots
are also considered to be temporary land uses and activities.

TEMPORARY STRUCTURE means a tent or similar type membrane construction erected
for a period of less than one-hundred (180) days or for a duration specified in an approval.
Temporary structures are commonly associated with Special Events and/or Temporary Land
Uses and Activities.

THREATENED SPECIES means those species designated by the federal government or
the State of Colorado as being any species that is likely to become an endangered species
within the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of its range, as that
definition may be amended by federal government laws or regulations from time to time.

TIMER means a mechanism that activates the light source at dusk and turns it off at a
selected time several hours later, well before dawn.

TIMESHARE means "interval estate," "timeshare estate," "timespan estate," and also
includes those other terms as defined in C.R.S. 38-33-110, as such may be amended from
time to time.

TIMESHARE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT means a written, sworn statement described
as required by the timesharing regulations of this Land Use Code.

TIMESHARE/FRACTIONAL OWNERSHIP means a contractual or membership right of
occupancy (that cannot be terminated at the will of the owner) for life or for a term of years,
to the recurrent, exclusive use or occupancy of a lot, parcel, unit, or specific or nonspecific
segment of real propey, annually or on some other periodic basis, for a period of time that
has been or will be allotted from the use or occupancy periods into which the property has
been divided.

TOURIST ACCOMMODATION means hotel, motel, lodge, or any building primarily
used or intended to be used for the purpose of providing overnight lodging facilities on a
short-term basis to the general public for compensation, with or without meals, and that has
common facilities for reservation and cleaning services, combined utilities and on-site
management.

TOURIST ACCOMMODATION UNIT means any unit intended to be occupied
principally by visitors to Pitkin County, located in a facility that offers customary on-site
management and operation services for visitors. This use shall include units found in a lodge,
hotel, motel, tourist dormitory, resort cabin, guest ranch, or similar facility, but shall exclude
any high country hut, tourist camping or similar facility that does not provide on-site
management and operation services or that does not meet the definition of dwelling unit in
this Chapter 11. Also excluded shall be dwelling units that are principally residences as
defined in this Chapter 11, and are subject to residential growth management quota system


Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 54
Chapter 11 Definitions


allotments even though they may from time to time be used by visitors or as a Short Term
Rental.

TRAFFIC-GENERATING DEVELOPMENT means development designed or intended
to permit a use of the land that will contain more dwelling units or floor space in a manner
that increases the generation of vehicular traffic.

TRAIL means a multi-purpose easement designed for non-motorized means of travel. A trail
may include a facility for the parking of motor vehicles that provides safe access to the trail.
This is an accessory use of land.

TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS OR TDRS are the right to sever
development rights that exist under the land use regulations, codes and plans of Pitkin
County for lands that have been designated within the Rural/Remote zone district and to
transfer such rights to lands that are designated as suitable for on-site development. Once a
development right is severed from a preservation site, it becomes a transferable development
right or TDRs until it is attached to a receiver site.

TRANSMISSION PIPELINE, when used in the context of oil and gas extraction, means a
pipeline transporting oil, natural gas or any other products derived from oil and gas
production, which is defined as a transmission pipeline by the Department of Transportation
regulations under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended.

TREE means a woody plant with an erect perennial trunk, that at maturity is thirteen feet
(13') or more in height and that has a more or less definite crown of foliage.

TREE CROWN means the primary and secondary branches growing out from the main
stem, together with twigs and foliage. The dimensions of tree crowns at maturity shall be
utilized to determine compliance with codes.

UNIT, in the context of common interest communities, means a physical portion of the
common interest community that is designated for separate ownership or occupancy and the
boundaries of which are described in or determined from the declaration. If a unit in a
cooperative is owned by a unit owner or is sold, conveyed, voluntarily or involuntarily
encumbered, or otherwise transferred by a unit owner, the interest in that unit that is owned,
sold, conveyed, encumbered, or otherwise transferred is the right to possession of that unit
under a proprietary lease, coupled with the allocated interests of that unit, and the
association's interest in that unit is not thereby affected. The creation of units as part of
common interest communities does not result in the legal subdivision of land or the creation
of legally separate lots.

UNSTABLE OR POTENTIALLY UNSTABLE SLOPE means an area susceptible to a
landslide, a mudflow, a rock fall, or accelerated creep of slope-forming materials.

URBAN means of, relating to, characteristic of, or constituting a municipality or city. Urban
areas are generally characterized by moderate and higher density residential development,
commercial development and industrial development.


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                    Page 55
Chapter 11 Definitions


URBAN AREA means lands located within adopted Urban Growth Boundaries or the
townsite of Redstone.

URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY means a limitation on urbanization of land or the types
of development that can occur outside of areas surrounding existing municipalities and
unincorporated settlements, that is negotiated between one or more governmental entities,
and that concerns areas over which those governmental entities have regulatory jurisdiction.

USABLE OPEN SPACE See Sec. 5-20-90.

USES BY FEDERAL PERMIT means any use of land or activities on the land or facilities
related to those uses or activities approved pursuant to a permit issued by an agency of the
federal government, and that have off-site impacts on unincorporated areas of the County not
in federal government ownership.

VEHICLE AND AIRCRAFT SALES AND SERVICE means the sale and rental of
vehicles and aircraft, including accessory gas and fueling stations, related trucking services,
bus and taxi storage and repair, and car washes.

VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT means pertaining to the maintenance, sale, or rental of
motor vehicles and related equipment. This category includes automobile parts and sales,
new and used automobile sales on the same lot, outside display and storage of vehicles and
equipment, heavy machinery sales and service, new boat sales and service, automobile body
repair, automobile assembly, painting, upholstery and rebuilding, automobile service office
or garage, tire re-treading, tire dealers, and trailer rental, sale, display, and/or storage uses.
Accessory uses may include incidental repair and storage, offices, and sales of parts. This is
a Use Category that includes uses like, but not limited to, the following: “Automobile
Service Station”, “Vehicle and Aircraft Sales and Service”, and other uses that the
Community Development Director determines belong in this Use Category.

VESTED PROPERTY RIGHT means the right to undertake and complete the development
and use of property under the terms and conditions of a site specific development plan, as set
forth in C.R.S. 24-68-101 et. seq.

VIOLATION means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant
with the community’s regulations.


VISITOR TRIP means one automobile arrival or departure, regardless of how many
individuals are in the automobile.

WATER CROSSING OR DIVERSION means a ditch, pipe, bridge, culvert, structure for
irrigation, drainage, flood control, or water diversion, or other pathway in which or through
which water is moved or allowed to move from one point to another, in accordance with
Colorado law, for purposes of irrigation, agricultural use, or domestic use within Pitkin
County.



Pitkin County Land Use Code         CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                      Page 56
Chapter 11 Definitions


WEAK SOIL AND ROCK means soil, rock or man-made fill that lacks strength to support
light loads imposed by residential dwellings or structures or similar loads, that may settle
unevenly under loads imposed by such structure, particularly upon application of water, or
that is susceptible to slipping, flowing or creeping due to gravity or leveling as a result of
wetting and drying.

WELLNESS CENTER means a facility offering treatments for physical, emotional and
spiritual wellbeing. Treatments may include but are not limited to massage therapy, physical
therapy, yoga, stretching, hydrotherapy, weight control, and dietary and detoxification
programs to maintain health and prevent illness. A wellness center is not a drug and alcohol
addiction treatment facility.

WETLANDS means areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at
a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances does
support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions,
commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation; provided that lands that are periodically
irrigated for agricultural purposes are not considered to be wetlands as the term is used in this
Land Use Code.

WILDFIRE BEHAVIOR means the predictable action of wildfire under given conditions
of slope, aspect and weather.

WILDFIRE HAZARD means a wildfire phenomenon that is so adverse to past, current or
foreseeable construction or land use as to constitute a hazard to public health and safety or to
property. The term includes, but is not limited to (a) slope and aspect, (b) wildfire behavior
characteristics, and (c) existing vegetation types.

WILDFIRE HAZARD AREA means an area containing or directly affected by a wildfire

WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE means that geographical area where structures and
other human development meets or intermingles with wildland or vegetative fuel.

WILDLIFE HABITAT means an area that includes: any area mapped by the Division of
Wildlife on Species Activity Maps (SAM) or Natural Diversity Information System (NDIS)
maps; Colorado Natural Heritage Program (CNHP) maps of rare and imperiled species and
natural communities; or any area determined by Pitkin County or the Division of Wildlife to
include: any portion of a wetland; riparian habitat; ungulate winter range, severe winter
range, and or winter concentration areas; wildlife migration corridors or migration habitat;
wildlife production, birthing, calving, or rearing areas; waterfowl, wading bird, feeding,
nesting, or breeding habitat; significant mountain sage-, aspen-, or mountain shrub-
dominated habitat; rare, sensitive, threatened, or endangered species habitat.

WILDLIFE HIGHWAY CROSSING means an area where bighorn sheep, elk, and/or
mule deer movements traditionally cross roads or railroads, presenting potential conflicts
between the animals and motorists/trains.




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 57
Chapter 11 Definitions


WILDLIFE MIGRATION CORRIDOR means a specific mappable site through which
large numbers of bighorn sheep, elk and/or mule deer migrate and loss of which would result
in a change to migration routes and/or significant negative impacts on migration behavior.

WILDLIFE MIGRATION HABITAT means that habitat between winter range and
summer range where elk spend significant periods of time (often weeks) prior to their final
seasonal destination. This is also known as transition range.

WILDLIFE MIGRATION PATTERN means a subjective indication of the general
direction and pattern of the movements of migratory bighorn sheep, elk and/or mule deer.

WIND POWERED ELECTRIC GENERATOR means a machine by which mechanical
energy supplied by the wind is changed to electric energy. A wind powered generator with a
rated capacity of 250 kW or less may be an accessory use subject to the provisions of Sec. 4-
30-50(j), while a wind powered generator with a higher rated capacity is categorized as a
major public facility.

WINTER CONCENTRATION AREA means those areas that are part of the winter range
where densities of bighorn sheep, elk and/or mule deer are at least two hundred (200) greater
than the surrounding winter range density during the same period used to define winter range
in the average five (5) winters out of ten (10).

WINTER MAINTENANCE OF ROADWAYS AND DRIVEWAYS includes plowing,
blading, scraping, and snow removal. Winter maintenance of roadways and driveways is
prohibited in the Rural/Remote zone district, except for access to residential development
sites approved prior to January 2, 1996, that have been historically and continually served by
privately winter maintained driveways or roadways.

WINTER RANGE means that part of the overall range where ninety (90) percent of the
individuals are located during the average five (5) winters out of ten (10) from the first heavy
snowfall to spring green-up.

WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF) Means an unstaffed facility for the
transmission and reception of radio or microwave signals used for commercial
communications. A WCF provides data and telecommunications services, including
commercial mobile services, commercial mobile data services, unlicensed wireless services
and common carrier wireless exchange access services, as defined by federal laws and
regulations.

WORKING DAY means Monday through Friday, during the hours of operation published
on the Pitkin County website, excluding holidays observed by Pitkin County.

YARD means an open space that shall be unoccupied and unobstructed from the natural
grade skyward, except for encroachments permitted in Sec. 5-20-100.

YARD, FRONT means a yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which is
measured as described in Sec. 5-20-40.


Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                     Page 58
Chapter 11 Definitions


YARD, REAR means a yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which is
measured as described in Sec. 5-20-40.

YARD, SIDE means a yard extending the length of the lot between the front and rear yard
setbacks (or lot line in the absence of yard requirements), the width of which is measured as
described in Sec. 5-20-40.

        (Code repealed and reenacted Ord. 14-D-2006, 07-05-08 § 11-10 (part) amended
        Ord. 23-07, 08-28-07; Ord. 012-08, 04-09-08; Ord. 024-07, 10-02-07; Ord. 010-08,
        03-26-08; Ord. 019-09, 06-24-09; Ord. 001-2011 – A&B, 01-12-2011; Ord. 025-09,
        10-14-09; Ord. 010-11, 08-10-2011; Ord. 011-11, 08-10-11; Ord. 002-13, 01-23-13;
        Ord. 007-13, 04-24-13; Ord. 031-2013, 12-18-13; Ord. 032-13, 12-18-13; Ord. 008-
        14, 04-23-14; Ord. 006-15, 02-25-2015; Ord. 040-2019 (part) 11-20-2019; Ord. 040-
        20, 11-21-2020; Ord.017-2021, 03-24-2021; Ord. 011-2022, 02-23-2022; Ord. 007-
        2024 (part) 04-10-2024; Ord. 027-2024.12-04-2024; Ord. 019-2026, 03-25-2026




Pitkin County Land Use Code       CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                                                 Page 59
Chapter 11 Definitions




                              [This page intentionally left blank]




Pitkin County Land Use Code        CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                            Page 60
Chapter 11 Definitions




Pitkin County Land Use Code   CHAPTER 11 – DEFINITIONS
July 2006                                                Page 61
