TITLE 12: OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

CHAPTER 12.04: GENERAL REGULATIONS ........................................................................... 2
12.04.010  ACQUISITION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS PROPERTIES ........................ 2
12.04.020: DESIGNATION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS FACILITIES ......................... 3
12.04.030: RULES REGARDING PUBLIC USE OF PITKIN COUNTY OPEN SPACE AND
TRAILS PROPERTIES. .................................................................................................................. 3
12.04.040: REPEALED ORD. 016-2015, 4-22-2015 ................................................................ 9
12.04.050: REPEALED ORD. 016-2015, 4-22-2015 ................................................................ 9
12.04.060: MANAGEMENT PLANS ....................................................................................... 9
12.04.070  SPECIAL USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS .................................................. 9
12.04.080: COMMERCIAL USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS ..................................... 11
12.04.090: EASEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS ................................................................... 12
12.04.100: AMENDMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS ............................................ 12
12.04.110: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES ......................................... 12
12.04.120: POSTING ............................................................................................................... 14




Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                                                        Page 1
TITLE 12: OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

CHAPTER 12.04: GENERAL REGULATIONS

SECTIONS:

12.04.010    ACQUISITION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS PROPERTIES

12.04.020    DESIGNATION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS FACILITIES

12.04.030 RULES REGARDING PUBLIC USE OF PITKIN COUNTY OPEN
SPACE AND TRAILS PROPERTIES

12.04.040    REPEALED

12.04.050    REPEALED

12.04.060    MANAGEMENT PLANS

12.04.070    PECIAL REVIEW USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

12.04.080    COMMERCIAL USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

12.04.090    EASEMENTS AND EASEMENT AGREEMENTS

12.04.100    AMENDMENT OF REULES AND REGULATIONS

12.04.110    VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

12.04.120     POSTING


12.04.010    ACQUISITION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS PROPERTIES

The trails, trailhead parking lots, open spaces and attendant facilities and structures that
are named as Open Space or Trails through Resolution or Ordinance of the Pitkin County
Board of Commissioners are declared to be Pitkin County Trails and Open Space
Properties; and further, that properties acquired by funds designated for the Open Space
and Trails Program are declared to be Pitkin County Open Space and Trails Properties,
and further, that properties may be added to or deleted from the inventory of Pitkin

Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                Page 2
County Trails and Open Space Properties according to applicable statutes, including, but
not limited to, Article 13, section 5.3 of the Pitkin County Home Rule Charter and by
Ordinance or Resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 01-04 (part): Ord. 93-
25 (part): Ord: 30-05 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title IX § 1-1)


12.04.020: DESIGNATION OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS FACILITIES

Open Space and Trails properties and facilities will be identified by specific action of the
Board of County Commissioners, through Ordinance or Resolution, identifying open
space and trails facilities as such. Such facilities will include, but not be limited to,
County owned and maintained trails, trailheads, parking areas, signs, mining claims, open
spaces, parks, river access points for boating or fishing purposes, fishing easements,
bridges, wildlife areas, and easements obtained for the purposes of wildlife habitat
preservation, scenic preservation, agriculture, access to public lands or for other purposes
identified by the County. As otherwise set forth in Article 13 of the Pitkin County Home
Rule Charter, Section 1.3, Open Space and Trails funds are not available for maintenance
or management purposes for those County properties not either purchased with Open
Space Funds or designated to the Open Space and Trails program pursuant to this Article.
Non-designated properties otherwise owned by Pitkin County shall be managed by the
General Fund through the Asset Management Division. (Ord. 01-04 (part): Ord. 93-25 (part):
Ord: 30-05 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title IX § 1-2)


12.04.030: RULES REGARDING PUBLIC USE OF PITKIN COUNTY OPEN
SPACE AND TRAILS PROPERTIES.

The following restrictions apply to all open space and trails properties owned in fee
simple by Pitkin County. These restrictions also apply where public access is provided in
trail and conservation easements, licenses, leases, and any other property interest held by
Pitkin County as provided or superseded by the specific terms of the property interest
agreement in question. Nothing contained herein limits or otherwise modifies rights
reserved to the owner of fee simple property subject to a conservation or trail easement
held by Pitkin County.

A.Motorized vehicles.

    1. Motorized Vehicles Restricted. Motorized vehicles are restricted to parking areas,
    driveways and other areas specifically posted for motor vehicle occupancy. No
    motorized vehicles whatsoever, including automobiles, trucks, farm or agricultural
    vehicles, motorcycles, motorbikes, motor scooters, go-carts, snowmobiles, mopeds,
    Class 2 and 3 electric bicycles, other electrically-driven devices or all terrain vehicles

Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                  Page 3
   will be allowed on any county trail at any time. The penalties for violation of
   12.04.030 (A) are provided in 12.04.110. The following vehicles and uses are
   exempted from this prohibition:

   a. County maintenance vehicles, ambulance, law enforcement, fire or other
      emergency vehicles will be allowed to enter onto county open space and trails in
      the course of carrying out their normal duties.
   b. Snowmobiles or snow cats may be allowed onto county trails to set cross-country
      ski tracks or to otherwise install or maintain Nordic trails with approval of the
      Open Space and Trails department.
   c. Construction or maintenance vehicles owned and operated by private contractors
      may enter onto county trails, subject to specific permission as set forth in the
      Asset Management Plan Section 6.02, as may be amended from time to time.
   d. Agricultural, ranch or personal vehicles belonging to specific owners, their
      employees or assigns, may enter onto county trails subject to the terms of
      easements or agreements between the county and individual landowners.
   e. Class 1 electric bicycles, also known as ebikes, are allowed on hard surface and
      crusher fine surface trails. Hard surface is defined as asphalt and/or concrete
      trails. Crusher fine surface is defined as crushed gravel and/or rocks.
   f. Use of mobility devices by persons with mobility impairments as provided in the
      Other Power Driven Mobility Device Management Plan adopted August 23, 2011,
      as may be amended from time to time.
2. Vehicles must be parked only in designated areas, and/or in compliance with all
posted parking signs.
3. Only persons with a disability may park in spaces designated for persons with
disabilities. A license plate or placard obtained pursuant to 42-3-1208 (4), C.R.S., as
amended, shall be displayed at all times while vehicle is parked is such a space.
4. It shall be unlawful to park in a manner that impedes access or use of any OST asset
or the safe flow of traffic.
5. Any vehicle found in violation of 12.04.030 (A) may be subject to towing or
impoundment at the expense of the owner.
B. Allowed Uses. Bicycles, pedestrians, horses, skates, skateboards, skis, snowshoes,
non-motorized scooters, wheelchairs, and baby strollers are allowed on designated trails
and routes at all times unless specifically prohibited and posted otherwise. All trail users


Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                 Page 4
will travel at safe speeds at all times with a maximum speed limit of 20 miles per hour
unless otherwise posted.

C. Equestrian Use. Horse traffic is restricted to walk or trot speeds. Horses must be
under control at all times. Buggies, carts, or other horse-drawn vehicles are prohibited
from all trails.

D. Right of Way. In areas of mixed use, i.e. horses, bicycles and pedestrians, equestrians
have the right of way in all circumstances. All traffic is to yield to equestrians. Bicycle
or other wheeled traffic is to yield to pedestrians. Hikers/bikers moving downhill must
yield to hikers/bikers moving uphill.

  1. Passing on Natural Surface Trails: At no less than fifteen (15) feet of approaching
     other trail users from any direction, slow to a speed comparable to the trail user
     being passed, communicate and gain their attention. Pass safely, single file and
     when oncoming traffic is clear. Stop when necessary to allow safe passage.

  2. Passing on Paved Trails: When passing other trail users from behind, slow to a
     safe speed, communicate and gain the attention of the user being passed. Pass
     safely, single file, at a safe distance (no less than 2 feet) and on the left when
     oncoming traffic is clear. Stop when necessary to allow safe passage.

  3. Attentiveness on Trails. Trail users must listen for and be aware of other trail users
     and yield appropriately. Earphones, ear buds or any personal audio device must be
     kept at an appropriate level to hear approaching trail users.


  4. Stop Required. Trail users shall stop at all road and driveway crossings and yield
     to any motorized traffic, except where the trail right of way takes precedence over
     a driveway crossing, in which case driveway users shall yield to trail users. Trails
     and roads will be posted with informational signs designating intersections.


E. Trespass Prohibited. It is prohibited to trespass from trails onto adjacent private
lands.

F. Closed Areas. Entry onto or use of Open Space lands posted as closed is prohibited.
Trails and lands may be subject to seasonal, temporary or emergency closures and the use
of such when so posted shall constitute a trespass.

G. Camping Prohibited. Overnight camping is prohibited on Open Space and Trails
properties.

Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                               Page 5
H. Dogs. Dogs must be leashed at all times, with a leash extended no greater than 6 feet
in length. A single person may walk no more than three dogs. Those persons attending
dogs on trails must always carry a receptacle, such as a plastic bag, for removal of
excrement. Dog waste must be immediately picked up and either carried until off the
Open Space property or disposed of in a trash receptacle by owners or guardians.
Leaving the scene of the waste is considered a failure to remove the waste. A pet
owner’s or guardian’s lack of knowledge of the location of the pet’s excrement is also
considered a failure to remove the waste. Trails will be posted if dogs are prohibited.
Trails may be closed to dogs pursuant to a management plan adopted pursuant to Section
12.04.060 or by action of the Open Space and Trails Board.

I. Domestic Animals Other Than Dogs. Domestic animals are prohibited on Open
Space properties except Horses and pack animals such as Llamas, Burros and the like, or
where specifically permitted pursuant to an agricultural lease, or for land management
purposes authorized by the county. Such animals must be under control at all times. It is
unlawful to chase or molest any livestock on Open Space properties. All gates, fences
and other entry points must be closed in areas where livestock is permitted.

J. Commercial Activities and Special Events Limited. Commercial activities and
Special Events are those for which a fee is charged for any person to undertake an
activity, including but not limited to guiding, training, instructing, or outfitting, where the
entity charging the fee also provides personnel during the activity itself. Commercial
activities and Special Events are prohibited on any Open Space land except when
specifically authorized pursuant to applicable laws, as noted herein; commercial activities
and Special Events that occur entirely within an Open Space property may be approved
by the Open Space director or his/her designee pursuant to Section 12.04.080.
Commercial activities and Special Events that occur on both Open Space properties and
other county-owned property or roads require a special review use approval from the
county, subject to Pitkin County Land Use Code section 4-30-40(q). Special Events or
Special Event shall have the same meaning as provided in Pitkin Count Code, Title 8,
Chapter 11.

K. Hunting. All Open Space and Trails properties are closed to hunting unless
authorized pursuant to a management plan adopted pursuant to Section 12.04.060 in
accordance with other applicable laws.

L. Fishing Restricted. Fishing is permitted according to the regulations of Colorado
Parks and Wildlife, except where otherwise posted and prohibited in a management plan
enacted pursuant to Section 12.04.060. A valid fishing license is required.



Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                   Page 6
M. Firearms. It is forbidden to discharge firearms or projectile weapons on any Open
Space or Trails property unless hunting is specifically authorized by the Open Space and
Trails Board in a management plan and in accordance with other applicable laws. The
intent is not to supersede Colorado Revised Statues Article 12 of Title 18.

N. Disorderly Conduct Prohibited. Disorderly conduct of any kind is prohibited on
Open Space and Trails properties. Disorderly conduct includes, but is not limited to,
making any coarse, annoying, derisive or obviously offensive utterance, gesture or
display which tends to incite an immediate breach of the peace. Also fighting, littering or
abandonment of private property, making excessive or amplified noise that would tend to
disturb the peace and quiet of adjacent residents or occupants, or any other activity that
deliberately infringes on the ability of others to use or enjoy open space or trails facilities.
No person shall remain in any pedestrian underpass, or at or within 200 feet of the
entrance for a period longer than is reasonably necessary to move through the underpass.

O. Fires Prohibited. Fires are prohibited at any location and at all times, except where
explicitly allowed in a Management Plan, or for management purposes as authorized by
the director of Open Space and Trails, and/or for irrigation ditch maintenance, and in
accordance with all other applicable laws. Gas grills may be permitted by special use
permit only. Charcoal grills are prohibited due to the fire hazard and difficulty of
disposal. It shall be unlawful to violate the conditions of any imposed fire restrictions or
fire ban.

P. Specified Hazardous Activities Prohibited. Hazardous activities which might
constitute or contribute to a hazard to the safety of any person are prohibited on Open
Space and Trails properties except where allowed in a management plan. Prohibited
activities include, but are not limited to, use of fireworks or other explosives, use of
remote-controlled craft or drones, and launching of missiles. Exceptions or additions to
these restrictions may be made in specific locations or circumstances pursuant to a
management plan or special use review under Section 12.04.070 and posted accordingly.

Q. Non-motorized Aircraft Restricted. Hang-gliding or operation of any motorized or
non-motorized aircraft, glider, parachute, paraglider or balloon for landing or take-off is
prohibited except pursuant to an adopted management plan and/or valid special use
permit pursuant applicable sections of the Pitkin County Code.

R. Boating Restricted. Boat launching is limited to sites designated for that purpose.
Man-made structures for boating such as access ramps, docks, kayak courses or buoys are
prohibited except in locations specifically authorized by a management plan enacted
pursuant to Article 4.5, or pursuant to a special use review under Section 12.04.070.



Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                    Page 7
S. Resource Protection. Vandalism, property damage or removal of resources or
facilities is prohibited on any Open Space or Trails property. It is unlawful to alter,
move, remove, damage, deface, mutilate or destroy any structure, poster, sign, marker,
fence, gate, furniture, vegetation, rock, or any object of scientific or historic value or
interest. It shall be unlawful to install or replace rock bolts or other fixtures, plant trees
or any other type of landscape material, or alter nordic trails, or establish or construct
trails or other facilities for public or private use without written approval from the Pitkin
County Open Space and Trails Department. Geocaching shall be unlawful unless the
person placing or searching the cache first registers the cache with the Open Space and
Trails Department to ensure compliance with existing regulations, closures, and
management plans. Travel off designated trails by bicycle or other mechanized means is
prohibited at all times.

T. Wildlife Protected. Wildlife is protected on all Open Space and Trails properties.
Hunting, trapping, chasing, molesting, harming, removing, killing or otherwise disturbing
wildlife on Open Space and Trails properties is prohibited at all times and under all
circumstances, with the exception of hunting authorized by the Open Space and Trails
Board in a management plan and in accordance with other applicable laws, and fishing
(See paragraphs K-L, above). Damaging or destroying the habitat of any species of
wildlife is prohibited. Removing or destroying, native plants, bird or reptile eggs is
prohibited. Nothing in this section shall prohibit trapping for research, management and
monitoring purposes as authorized by the director of Open Space and Trails.

U. Littering and Waste Disposal Prohibited. Any disposal, depositing or abandonment
of trash, garbage, litter, waste paper, waste food products, human or animal wastes,
garden waste, landscape waste, toxic materials, oil and other mechanical waste products,
animal parts, fire ash or other combustion byproducts, or other waste products on Open
Space or Trails properties other than in designated containers and locations is prohibited.

V. Structures, Storage of Materials, and Notices Prohibited. Construction of any kind
not specifically authorized by Pitkin County Open Space and Trails is prohibited.
Activities prohibited include, but are not limited to, excavations, ground clearing or
grading, erection of permanent or temporary structures, erection of signs, posting of bills,
notices or posters, storage of items, fencing or clearing of vegetation.

W. Interference Prohibited. It shall be unlawful to interfere or attempt to interfere
with any Pitkin County Ranger or other Open Space employee who is acting in the
performance of his or her duties on Open Space or to give false or misleading
information with the intent to mislead said person in the performance of his or her duties.




Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                   Page 8
X. Glass Containers. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess, outside of
an enclosed vehicle, any glass bottle or other glass container within any Pitkin County
Open and Trails area, except as might be required for prescribed medical treatment.
(Ord. 01-04 (part): Ord. 93-25 (part): Ord: 30-05 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title IX § 2-1)
Section 12.04.030 Repealed and Reenacted Ord. 016-2015, 4-22-15) Amended (part) Ord. 027-2018, 05-
23-18) Amended (part) Ord. 008-2020

12.04.040: Repealed Ord. 016-2015, 4-22-2015
(Ord. 004-2001 (part): Ord. 025-1993; Ord: 030-2005 . Ord. 007-2014 (part) (repealed and re-enacted)
prior code Title IX § 2-3; Repealed Ord. 016-2015, 04-22-2015)


12.04.050: Repealed Ord. 016-2015, 4-22-2015
(Ord. 004-2001 (part): Ord. 025-1993; (part) Ord: 030-2005 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title
IX § 2-3; Repealed Ord. 016-2015, 04-22-2015)


12.04.060: MANAGEMENT PLANS

The Board of Open Space Trustees may adopt individualized management plans for
specific Open Space and Trails Properties, to set forth management policies and
objectives. If a management plan imposes restrictions that are different from those set
forth in this Title, and are to be enforced under Article 6 below, the management plan
must be adopted by the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to an Ordinance. In
that event, the Ordinance adopting a management plan shall include a provision that it is
governed by Title 12 of the Pitkin County Code and that violation of its terms and
conditions shall be enforced under the provisions of this regulation as if they were set
forth herein. (Ord. 004-2001 (part): Ord. 025-1993 (part); Ord: 030-2005 (repealed and reenacted)
prior code Title IX § 2-4)


12.04.070      SPECIAL USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

This Section establishes review standards for Uses of Open Space Properties allowed
only by Special Use permits pursuant to Section 4-30-50(i) of the Pitkin County Land
Use Code. The County may approve, approve with conditions, or deny applications for
special uses of Open Space Properties pursuant to section 4-30-50(i) of the Pitkin County
Land Use Code.

 A.    Prior to submitting an application for a Special Use pursuant to section 3-210
       {Now recodified to 4-30-50(i)} of the Pitkin County Land Use Code, the applicant
       shall obtain a written certification from the Director of Open Space and Trails
       regarding the consistency of the proposed use with the following.
Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                           Page 9
             1.   The Management Plan for the open space property in question, if
                  available.

             2.   The provisions of Title IX, Article 2, of the Pitkin County Land Use Code

             3. The protection of the conservation values of the Open Space Property on
                which the use is proposed.

 B.   In responding to requests pursuant to this Article, the Open Space Director shall
      consult with the County Wildlife Biologist and/or other persons with requisite
      expertise to evaluate the impact of the proposed use on the conservation values of
      the Open Space Property.

 C.   The Open Space Director may condition a certification of consistency on the
      applicant agreeing to provide a surety bond in favor of the County in the event that
      a Special Use Permit is granted, in the amount of at least two thousand dollars
      ($2000.00), or other amount to be determined by the Open Space Director, or
      his/her designee. All Financial Security will be held for the duration of any special
      use permit. The bond will be conditioned upon:

             1. Faithful compliance with the terms of a special use permit, regulations,
                and codes of Pitkin County.

             2. The restoration and cleanup of any site affected by the special use. Any
                revegetation needed to restore the site shall conform to the adopted
                Pitkin County Landscape Guidelines

 D.   The Open Space Director may condition certification on the applicant’s agreement
      to pay a use impact fee which is commensurate with the additional maintenance
      costs associated with the proposed use.

 E.   The Open Space Director shall make a written response either certifying the
      consistency of the proposed special use with or without conditions, or determining
      the proposed special use is not consistent, within 45 days of receiving a written
      request for certification. An applicant may appeal the determination of the Open
      Space Director to the Board of County Commissioners within 15 days of receipt of
      the determination. The Board of County Commissioners must issue a final
      determination within 30 days of hearing an appeal pursuant to this section.



Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                               Page 10
 F.    Notwithstanding Section 3-1.1, non-commercial organized recreational users, as
       called out in the 2000 North Star Management Plan, and other management plans
       as may be adopted pursuant to section 2-4, may obtain a special use permit directly
       from the Open Space and Trails Department based on a finding of consistency
       made pursuant to this Article without applying under section 3-210. (Ord. 01-04
       (part): Ord. 93-25 (part): prior code Title IX § 3-1) (Ord. 007-2014 (part)

12.04.080: COMMERCIAL USE OF OPEN SPACE AND TRAILS

This section establishes review standards for Commercial uses of Open Space Properties.
The Open Space Director or his/her designee may approve commercial uses on Open
Space Properties based on the following standards:

  1.    The use is consistent with the Management Plan for the open space property in
       question, if available.

  2. The use is consistent with the provisions of Title XII, Article 2, of the Pitkin
     County Land Use.

  3. The activity will not materially harm the conservation values of the open space
     property on which the use is proposed.

The Open Space Director or his/her designee may place reasonable conditions on
commercial use permits as deemed necessary to protect the conservation values of the
Open Space Property on which the use is proposed, to recoup the Open Space
Departments expenses associated with the use, and to protect the access of the general
public to the subject property. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
   A. The applicant agreeing to provide a surety bond in favor of the County in the event
        that a Commercial Use Permit is granted, in the amount of at least two-thousand
        dollars ($2,000), or other amount to be determined by the Open Space Director, or
        his/her designee,. All financial security will be held for the duration of any
        commercial use permit. The bond will be conditioned upon:

                      1. Faithful compliance with the terms of a Commercial Use Permit,
                         regulations, and codes of Pitkin County.

                      2.    The restorations and cleanup of any site affected by the
                           commercial use. Any revegetation needed to restore the site shall
                           conform to the adopted Pitkin County Landscape Guidelines.


Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                 Page 11
                      3.   The applicant(s)’ agreement to pay a use impact fee, which is
                           commensurate with the additional maintenance costs associated
                           with the proposed use. (Section 12-075-Added: Ord. 007-14 04-23-140)
                           (Ord. 007-2014 (part)


12.04.090: EASEMENTS AND AGREEMENTS

The terms and conditions of Conservation or Trail Easements or other approved
agreements between the County and private property owners are incorporated into these
regulations by reference. To the extent of any conflict between these regulations and the
terms of conservation easements or trail easements, the terms of such easements will
control. Those terms and conditions shall be enforced under the provisions of this
regulation as if they were set forth herein. (Ord. 01-4 (part): Ord. 93-25 (part): Ord: 30-05
(repealed and re-enacted): prior code Title IX Art. 4)


12.04.100: AMENDMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS

These rules and regulations may be amended from time to time by the Pitkin County
Board of County Commissioners in consultation with the Open Space and Trails Board.
These rules shall apply to existing Open Space and Trails Properties and to such trails
and open space properties as may be acquired by the Pitkin County Open Space and
Trails Program from time to time or designated by the County as being subject to these
rules. (Ord. 01-4 (part): Ord. 93-25 (part): Ord. 30-05 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title IX Art.
5)


12.04.110: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES

     A. Unlawful Activity. It shall be unlawful to engage in any activity that is in
        violation of the Article 2 or Article 3 of this code.

     Penalty. Violation of this code is a Civil Infraction, punishable by a fine of $100.00
     for the first offense, $500.00 for the second offense, and $1000.00 for the third and
     subsequent offenses except as provided below:

     Dog-related assessments:
       First Offense: $100.00
       Second Offense: $250.00
       Third Offense: $500.00
       Subsequent Offenses: $1,000.00

Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                            Page 12
   Firearms, interference, littering, and fire-related assessments:
     First Offense: $250.00
     Second Offense: $500.00
     Subsequent Offenses: $1,000.00

   Parking assessments for violation of subsection (A) of 12.04.030, Rule 2 and 4:
     First Offense: $50.00
     Subsequent Offense: $100.00

   Parking assessments for violation of subsection (A) of 12.04.030, Rule 3:
     First Offense: $250.00
     Second Offense: $500.00
     Subsequent Offenses: $1,000.00

Assessments for violation of any provision of a special use permit, commercial use
permit, or right of way permit, issued by any Pitkin County department for use of
any Open Space and Trails property, or the failure to obtain such permits when
required:
  First and Subsequent Offense: Up to $1,000.00

Hunting and resource damage-related assessments:
 First and Subsequent offenses: Up to $1,000.00

   B. Criminal Enforcement The Director of Pitkin County Open Space and Trails,
      Open Space and Trails Land Steward, Open Space and Trails Ranger, the Pitkin
      County Wildlife Biologist, Pitkin County Zoning Officer, the Pitkin County
      Community Development Director, Pitkin County Engineer, or any law
      enforcement officer may follow the penalty assessment procedure provided in
      Section 16-2-201, C.R.S. for any violation of this code, or may enforce the
      provisions of this code by filing and service of summons and complaint in
      accordance with county court procedures. In the event the penalty assessment
      procedure is followed, the penalty shall be the as set forth in 3B, and such
      assessment shall also include a surcharge required by C.R.S. Section 30-15-
      402(2). A person who violates this code three (3) or more times in the space of
      one (1) year shall be subject to imprisonment for no more than ninety days per
      offense pursuant to C.R.S. 30-35-201 C.R.S. and Article 12 of the Pitkin County
      Home Rule Charter. Each day a violation of this code continues shall constitute a
      separate offense.




Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                           Page 13
    C.   Civil Enforcement – In the event of any activity in violation of this Code, the
         County Attorney, in addition to other remedies provided by law or specified
         herein, may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate
         action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, or abate any unlawful activity, or to
         remove any improvements on construction resulting from such unlawful activity.
         In the event that such unlawful activity has damaged any county property, the
         violator shall be liable for any damage to county property resulting from any such
         unlawful activity, including, but not limited to, compensation for staff time and
         for use of county equipment to repair such damage. Any civil action or
         proceeding can include a claim to recover all such money damages. (Ord. 01-4
         (part): Ord. 93-25 (part): Ord. 30-05 (repealed and re-enacted) prior code Title IX Art. 6)
         Amended (part) Ord. 008-2020 ; Amended (part) Ord.033-2023, 11-15-2023


12.04.120: POSTING

These regulations, or a summary thereof, will be posted at visible locations on Open
Space and Trails Properties. Full text of these regulations shall be available for public
inspection at the offices of the County Open Space and Trails Director, Land Steward and
the Pitkin County Open Space and Trails Program. (Ord. 01-4 (part): Ord. 93-25 (part), Ord: 30-
05 (repealed and re-enacted): prior code Title IX Art. 7)




Pitkin County Code – Title 12 - Open Space and Trails                                             Page 14
