# CITY OF ASPEN MUNICIPAL CODE — TITLE 24 - TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
# Source: Municode (api.municode.com), Supp. No. 7 Update 1, codified through Ord. No. 06-2026 (enacted 2026-03-24)
# Retrieved: 2026-07-22


===== TITLE 24 - TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
Footnotes: 
 --- (
1
) ---
Cross reference— 
 Department of Engineering, § 2.20.010 et seq.; bicycles, § 7.04.010 et seq.; certain vehicles prohibited on sidewalks and malls, § 15.04.230; idling of vehicle motors restricted, § 18.04.030; mufflers required, sound trucks restricted, § 18.04.030; police, § 19.04.010 et seq.; streets and sidewalks, § 21.04.010 et seq.
State Law reference— 
 Regulation of vehicles and traffic, C.R.S. § 42-4-101 et seq.

===== Chapter 24.04. - GENERAL PROVISIONS


===== Sec. 24.04.010. - Code does not affect ordinances regulating traffic on specific streets.
Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed as repealing
 or otherwise affecting any ordinance of the City prescribing traffic regulations on
 specific streets or highways in the City, such as, but not limited to ordinances prescribing
 speed limits, establishing areas or spaces where parking is prohibited or limited
 or designating one-way streets or alleys or intersections for the control of traffic
 by signs or signals and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
 full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
 (Code 1971, § 22-1)

===== Sec. 24.04.020. - Model Traffic Code.
(a)
Adoption.
 Pursuant to C.R.S. parts 1 and 2 of art. 16 of tit. 31 and Part 4 of art. 15 of tit.
 30, there is hereby adopted by reference Articles I and II, inclusive, of the 2003
 edition of the 
"Model Traffic Code"
 promulgated and published as such by the Colorado Department of Transportation, Safety
 and Traffic Engineering Branch, 4201 East Arkansas Avenue, EP 700, Denver, Colorado
 80222. The subject matter of the Model Traffic Code relates primarily to comprehensive
 traffic control regulations for the City. The purpose of the Ordinance and the Code
 adopted herein is to provide a system of traffic regulations consistent with state
 law and generally conforming to similar regulations throughout the State and nation.
 Three (3) copies of the Model Traffic Code adopted herein are now filed in the office
 of the City Clerk, and may be inspected during regular business hours.
 (b)
Deletions.
 The 2003 edition of the Model Traffic Code is adopted as if set out at length save
 and except the following articles and/or sections which are declared to be inapplicable
 to this municipality and are therefore expressly deleted:
 Please see the Section on additions and modifications immediately following.
 (c)
Additions or modifications.
 The said adopted Code is subject to the following additions or modifications:
 (1)
Article I.
 (A)
 Section 202 of this Model Traffic Code.
 Section 202 is hereby amended by the addition of the following Subsection, which shall
 read as follows:
 "(4) It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or knowingly
 permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway within this municipality any
 vehicle or combination of vehicles which does not contain those parts or is not at
 all times equipped with such lamps, reflectors, brakes, horn and other warning and
 signaling devices, mirrors, safety glass, fenders, tires and other equipment, kept
 in proper condition and adjustment as required in C.R.S. §§ 42-4-202 through 42-2-228
 and 42-2-230 and 42-4-301 through 42-4-306, as amended or which is equipped in any
 manner in violation of said Sections or for any person to do any act forbidden or
 fail to perform any act required by and under said Sections."
 (B)
 Section 601 of the Model Traffic Code is hereby repealed and reenacted to read as
 follows:
 "Local governments to sign highway, where this local government shall place and maintain
 such traffic control devices, conforming to the 'Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
 Devices' and specifications, upon streets and highways as it deems necessary to indicate
 and to carry out the provisions of this Code or to regulate, warn or guide traffic."
 (B-1)
 (Errata) Section 614(2). At Section 614(2) in the fourth sentence that begins with
 the words "Local authorities," the ninth word "sing" should be "sign."
 (B-2)
 At Section 615(3) in the first line insert the word "apply" between the words "not"
 and "if." To-wit: "This Section does not 
apply
 if…."
 (C)
 Section 616. Model Traffic Code. Section 613 is hereby amended by the addition of
 the following Section, which shall read as follows:
 "Obedience to stopping, standing or parking regulations. On any street or at any place
 within the municipality where official signs are posted giving notice of stopping,
 standing or parking restrictions or prohibitions, no person shall stop, stand or park
 a vehicle in any manner in violation of the provisions contained on such sign or signs
 except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
 directions of a police officer or official traffic control device or except for the
 purpose of loading or unloading passengers when such standing does not obstruct impede
 or endanger any traffic."
 (C-1)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of the following Section,
 which shall read:
 "713. Yielding to Transit Vehicle.
 "(1) The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a transit vehicle traveling
 in the same direction that has signaled and is reentering the traffic flow.
 "(2) Nothing in this Section shall operate to relieve the driver of a transit vehicle
 from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the roadway."
 (D)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1101(2)(c) is hereby repealed and reenacted to read as
 follows:
 (2)
 Except when a special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, the following speeds
 shall be lawful:
 (a)
 Fifteen (15) miles per hour throughout the City of Aspen unless otherwise posted
 (b)
 Any speed not in excess of a speed limit designated by an official control device.
 (E)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1204(1) is hereby amended by the repeal and reenactment
 of Subsection (k) and the addition of Subsections (l), (m) and (n), which shall read
 as follows:
 "Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (4) of this Section, no person shall stop,
 stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
 or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or an official traffic control
 device, in any of the following places:
 "(k) At any other place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
 "(l) In alleyways, truck loading zones and passenger loading zones except during the
 necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of merchandise, freight or passengers.
 "(m) Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
 side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy-five (75)
 feet of said entrance when properly posted.
 "(n) Within two (2) feet of a walkway leading to a residence where no sidewalk exists."
 (F)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1204(2) is hereby repealed and reenacted to read as follows:
 "Except as otherwise provided in Subsection (4) of this Section, in addition to the
 restrictions specified in Subsection (1) of this Section, no person shall stand or
 park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
 with the directions of a duly authorized official or official traffic control device
 or except for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers when such standing does
 not obstruct, impede or endanger any traffic, in any of the following places:
 "(a)
 Within five feet of a public or private driveway or alleyway;
 "(b)
 Within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant;
 "(c)
 Within twenty feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
 "(d)
 Within thirty feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon or signal, stop sign,
 yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
 "(e)
 Within twenty feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or, on the side of
 a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within seventy-five (75) feet
 of said entrance when properly signposted;
 "(f)
 At any other place where official signs prohibit standing."
 (G)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1205 is hereby amended by the addition of the following
 Subsections, which shall read as follows:
 "(4) Obedience to angle parking signs or markings. On those streets which have been
 approved and signed or marked for angle parking, no person shall stop, stand or park
 a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
 such signs or markings; and such vehicle shall be so parked with its front wheel no
 more than six (6) inches from the curb.
 "(5) Parking not to obstruct traffic or maintenance. No person shall park any vehicle
 upon a street or highway in such a manner or under such conditions as to interfere
 with the free movement of vehicular traffic or proper street or highway maintenance
 or to leave any vehicle parked at the same place or substantially the same place for
 a period of seventy-two (72) hours."
 (H)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1208(2) is hereby amended by the addition of the following
 Subsection, which shall read as follows:
 "In a jurisdiction recognizing the privilege ("parking privileges for persons with
 disabilities") defined by this Subsection (2), a vehicle with distinguishing license
 plates or an identifying placard may be parked in public parking areas along public
 streets regardless of any time limitation imposed upon parking in such area; except
 that the privilege need not apply to zones in which:
 "Parking is restricted to short-term parking of thirty minutes or less, as imposed
 by official signs or meters."
 (I)
 Model Traffic Code Section 1212 is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1212,
 which shall read as follows:
 "Parking meter zones. Wherever parking meter zones have been established on streets
 or in parking areas regulated by this municipality, the parking of vehicles at places,
 streets or parts of streets so designated shall be controlled by parking meters between
 the hours and on the days specified on authorized parking meter signs or legends."
 (J)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1213, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1213. Parking meters.
 "Parking meters installed in parking meter zones established in this municipality
 shall be so designed, constructed, installed and set as to meet the following conditions:
 "(1) Said meters shall be capable of being operated, either automatically or mechanically,
 upon the deposit therein of one or more coins or of United States currency or authorized
 cards or tokens, for the full period of time for which parking is lawfully permitted
 in any such parking meter zone or, in lieu thereof, for an appropriate fractional
 period of time. Meters may, as indicated by authorized parking meter signs or legends,
 regulate parking in either individual parking spaces or multiple parking spaces.
 "(2) Individual space parking meters. Upon the expiration of the time period registered
 by the deposit of one or more coins, tokens or cards as provided herein, parking meters
 for individual parking spaces shall indicate by an appropriate signal that the lawful
 parking meter period has expired, and during said period of time and prior to the
 expiration thereof, will indicate the interval of time which remains of such period.
 "(3) Multiple space parking meters. Upon the deposit of one or more coins, tokens
 or cards as provided herein, parking meters regulating multiple parking spaces shall
 issue a printed receipt indicating the date of issuance and expiration time of the
 interval of authorized parking.
 "(4) Each parking meter shall bear thereon an authorized sign or message clearly legible
 indicating the days and hours when the requirement to deposit coins, tokens or cards
 shall apply, the value of the coins, tokens or cards to be deposited and the limited
 period of time for which parking is lawfully permitted in the parking meter zone in
 which such meter is located.
 "(5) The City may authorize the use of portable, in-vehicle meters for use in multiple
 space parking meter zones. Such portable meters, when properly operated, may be used
 in lieu of receipts issued by multiple space parking meters. Portable meters, when
 used, must be clearly visible, hanging from the rear view mirror of the vehicle for
 which the meter is used. Unless otherwise authorized by the City, portable meters
 shall require the same rate of payment per unit of time as is applicable to the multiple
 space parking meter zone in which the portable meter is used."
 (K)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1214, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1214. Parking meter spaces.
 "(a) Individual parking meters. Parking meter spaces for individual space parking
 meters shall be of appropriate length and width as determined by an engineering and
 traffic investigation and may be designated by appropriate markings on the curb and/or
 pavement of the street. Every vehicle parked in an angle parking space regulated by
 an individual space parking meter shall be parked wholly in the metered space, with
 the front end or front portion of such vehicle immediately adjacent to the parking
 meter for such space. Every vehicle parked in a parallel parking space regulated by
 an individual space parking meter shall be parked wholly in the metered space, with
 either the front end or front portion or the rear end or rear portion of such vehicle
 immediately adjacent to the parking meter for such space.
 "(b) Multiple space parking meters. In zones regulated by multiple space parking meters,
 vehicles shall be parked either parallel or diagonal to the curb, as may be indicated
 by official signs. Vehicles parked in a manner so that any portion of the vehicle
 is within the zone regulated by the multiple space meter shall be required to pay
 the amount indicated by the meter for parking in that zone.
 "(c) Except where prohibited by other provisions of this Code, a vehicle which is
 of a size too large to be parked within a single parking meter space shall be permitted
 to occupy two adjoining parking meter spaces when coins, tokens or cards have been
 deposited in the parking meter for each space so occupied as is required for the parking
 of other vehicles in such spaces."
 (L)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1215, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1215. Deposit of coins, tokens or cards, time limits.
 "(a) Individual space parking meters. No person shall park a vehicle in any parking
 space upon a street along side of, next to or adjacent to which an individual parking
 space meter has been installed during the restricted and regulated time applicable
 to the parking meter zone in which such meter is located unless a coin or coins of
 United States currency or authorized tokens of the appropriate denomination as provided
 in this Code shall have been deposited therein or shall have been previously deposited
 therein for an unexpired interval of time, and said meter has been placed in operation.
 "(b) Multiple space parking meters. No person shall park a vehicle in any multiple
 space parking meter zone, as indicated by official signs, during the restricted and
 regulated time applicable to the multiple space parking meter zone unless a coin or
 coins of United States currency or authorized tokens or cards of the appropriate denominations
 as provided in this Code shall have been deposited therein, a receipt therefor received
 from the multiple space parking meter, and the receipt clearly displayed on the dashboard
 indicating an unexpired interval of time; or, such vehicle displays a validly issued
 and properly operated portable, in-vehicle meter. No person shall display more than
 one (1) multiple space parking meter receipt on the dashboard of any vehicle at one
 time.
 "(c) No person shall permit a vehicle under the person's control to be parked in any
 parking meter space or parking meter zone for a consecutive period of time longer
 than that limited period of time for which parking is lawfully permitted in the parking
 meter space or zone, irrespective of the number or amount of coins, tokens or cards
 deposited in the meter regulating such space or zone.
 "(d) No person shall permit a vehicle within his control to be parked in any parking
 meter space or zone during the restricted and regulated time applicable to the parking
 meter space or zone while the parking meter for such space indicates by signal that
 the lawful parking time in such space is expired or in multiple space parking meter
 zones, without displaying a valid multiple space parking meter receipt. This provision
 shall not apply to the act of parking or the necessary time which is required to deposit
 immediately thereafter coins, tokens or cards in such meter.
 "(e) A vehicle may be parked in a parking meter space or zone without operation of
 the meter on Sundays, on holidays as defined by this Code, and during those hours
 of the day when the requirement to deposit coins, tokens or cards does not apply,
 as determined from the parking meter sign or legend.
 "(f) The provisions of this Section shall not relieve any person from the duty to
 observe other and more restrictive provisions of this Code or official signs or parking
 meter legends prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
 in specified places, at specified times or in a specified manner.
 "(g) No person shall deposit or attempt to deposit in any parking meter any slug,
 button or any other device or substance as substitutes for coins of United States
 currency, authorized tokens or cards, and no person shall deposit any lawful coin,
 token or card that is bent, cut, torn, battered or otherwise misshapen."
 (M)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1216, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1216. Clearance between vehicles.
 "No person shall stand or park a vehicle in such a manner as to leave available less
 than 2 feet clearance between vehicles when parked."
 (N)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1217, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1217. Parking for certain purposes prohibited.
 "No person shall park a vehicle upon a roadway for the principal purpose of:
 "(a) Displaying such vehicle for sale;
 "(b) Washing, greasing, painting or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated
 by an emergency;
 "(c) Displaying advertising."
 (O)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1218, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1218. Fraudulent use of parking resources.
 "No person shall park a vehicle upon a street or in an alley of the City using action
 or actions intended to circumvent the enforcement of the 20035 edition of the "Model
 Traffic Code" as amended by ordinances of the City."
 (P)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1416, which shall
 read as follows:
 "1416. Violation of registration provisions.
 "It is unlawful for any person:
 "To park or for the owner or operator thereof knowingly to permit the parking upon
 a street or property of the City, of any vehicle or trailer coach subject to registration
 under the laws of the State or the laws of any other jurisdiction, which is not registered
 pursuant to Colorado law or which does not have attached thereto and displayed thereon
 the number plate or plates assigned thereto by the department for the current registration
 year. This Section does not apply to vehicles or trailer coaches with dealer plates
 or depot tags displayed in accordance with laws applicable to such use for motor vehicle
 dealers and manufacturers."
 (Q)
 Article II. Section 102. Model Traffic Code, Article II, Section 102, is hereby amended
 by the addition of the following Subsection, which shall read as follows:
 "(29.5) 
Holidays
. Where used in this ordinance or on official signs, 
holidays
 shall, in addition to Sundays, mean New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day,
 Presidents' Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas
 Day and any such additional statutory holidays as may by ordinance be declared applicable."
 (R)
 The Model Traffic Code is hereby amended by the addition of Section 1412, which shall
 read as follows:
 "11 With the exception of Highway 82 and all stop signs at the side streets that intersect
 the highway, a person operating a bicycle or electric assisted bicycle approaching
 a stop sign shall slow down and, if required for safety, stop before entering the
 intersection. After slowing to a reasonable speed or stopping, the person shall yield
 the right-of-way to pedestrians in a crosswalk as required in Section 802 and to any
 vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another street so closely as to constitute
 an immediate hazard during the time the person is moving across or within the intersection
 or junction of streets, except that a person, after slowing to a reasonable speed
 and yielding the right-of-way if required, may cautiously make a turn or proceed through
 the intersection without stopping. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection
 (11), this provision shall not apply to any persons ten (10) years of age and younger.
 These individuals are not permitted to proceed through an intersection while operating
 a bicycle or electric assisted bicycle without stopping at intersections signed with
 stop signs."
 (d)
Penalties.
 The following penalties, herewith set forth in full, shall apply to this Section.
 (1)
 It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions stated or adopted in
 this Section.
 (2)
 Every person convicted of a violation of any offense in this Section shall be subject
 to the penalties set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code.
 (e)
Application.
 The ordinance codified herein shall apply to every street, alley, sidewalk area,
 driveway, park and to every other public way or public place or public parking area,
 either within or outside the corporate limits of this municipality, the use of which
 this municipality has jurisdiction and authority to regulate. The provisions of Sections
 1401, 1402, 1413 and part 16 of the adopted Model Traffic Code respectively concerning
 reckless driving, careless driving, eluding a police officer and accidents and accident
 reports shall apply not only to public places and ways but also throughout this municipality.
 (f)
Validity.
 If any part or parts of this Chapter are for any reason held to be invalid, such
 decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter.
 The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed the ordinance codified
 herein and each part or parts thereof, irrespective of this fact that any one (1)
 part or parts be declared invalid.
 (g)
Repeal.
 Existing or parts of the ordinance identified as 
Section 24.24.020
, Model Traffic Code, of this Code, covering the same matters as embraced in the ordinance
 codified herein are hereby repealed and all ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent
 with the provisions of the ordinance codified herein are hereby repealed, except that
 this repeal shall not affect or prevent the prosecution or punishment of any person
 for any act done or committed in violation of any ordinance hereby repealed prior
 to the taking effect of the ordinance codified herein.
 (h)
Interpretation.
 This Chapter shall be so interpreted and constructed as to effectuate its general
 purpose to conform with the State's uniform system for the regulation of vehicles
 and traffic. Article and section headings of this Chapter and adopted Model Traffic
 Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope,
 meaning or extent of the provisions of any article or section thereof.
 (i)
Certification.
 The City Clerk shall certify to the passage of the ordinance codified herein and
 make not less than three (3) copies of the adopted Code available for inspection by
 the public during regular business hours.
 (
Ord. No. 21-98
, §§ 1, 2; 
Ord. No. 5-98
, § 2; 
Ord. No. 49-2003
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 60-2003,
 § 1; 
Ord. No 12-2004
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-2013
; 
Ord. No. 29-2013
§ 2; 
Ord. No. 16-14
; Ord. No. 
14-2023
, § 1, 10-10-2023)
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 5-1998, § 2, repealed former § 24.04.020, pertaining to the Model Traffic
 Code and enacted a new § 24.04.020 as herein set out. Former § 24.04.020 was derived
 from Ord. No. 28-1996, § 2 as amended by Ord. No. 34-1997, § 2.

===== Sec. 24.04.030. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 16-1971 did not expressly amend this Code, but superseded prior provisions
 of: former § 22-3 relating to deletions of portions of the Model Traffic Code, derived
 from Code 1962, § 10-1-1, and Ord. No. 17-1966, § 1; former § 22-4 relating to amendments
 to the Model Traffic Code, derived from Code 1962, § 10-1-3, and Ord. No. 17-1966,
 § 2; former § 22-4.1 relating to violation of the Model Traffic Code.
 (Code 1971, §§ 22-3—22-4.1)

===== Sec. 24.04.040. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 46-1974, § 1, repealed former § 22-5 derived from Code 1962, § 10-1-4, and
 Ord. No. 20-1964. Said ordinance prohibited sleeping in motor vehicles.
 (Code 1971, § 22-5)

===== Sec. 24.04.050. - Parking during snow removal restricted.
There shall be no parking whatsoever on any roadway or contiguous shoulder of any
 state highway connecting link within the City during the times and at the places where
 snow removal operations are in progress.
 (Code 1962, § 10-6-7; 
Ord. No. 37-1966
; Code 1971, § 22-6)

===== Sec. 24.04.060. - Vehicles with lug-wheels on streets restricted.
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavements to be permitted
 upon the paved public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicles shall first
 plank such streets.
 (Code 1962, § 6-1-20; Code 1971, § 22-7)

===== Sec. 24.04.070. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 16-1979, § 1, repealed former § 22-8. Said section was derived from Code
 1962, § 10-2-1, and prohibited the riding or driving of animals upon city avenues,
 alleys or lanes at a speed greater than six (6) miles per hour.
 (Code 1971, § 22-8)

===== Sec. 24.04.080. - Duty to obey state traffic laws on state highways.
On any portion of any state highway connecting link within the City no person shall
 violate any of the provisions of C.R.S. ch. 13, nor any of the laws amending the same,
 nor any of the rules or regulations issued pursuant hereto.
 (Code 1962, § 10-6-5; 
Ord. No. 37-1966
; Code 1971, § 22-9) except as amended by sec. 27.04.020

===== Sec. 24.04.090. - Approval of regulations which affect state highways.
All traffic and parking regulations adopted which pertain to the streets and roadways
 which form a part of the state highway system and constitute a connecting link thereof,
 shall be submitted to the Department of Highways for approval in accordance with the
 provisions of C.R.S. ch. 120, art. 13, § 35(8), before they shall become effective.
 (Code 1962, § 10-6-9; 
Ord. No. 37-1966
; Code 1971, § 22-10)

===== Sec. 24.04.100. - Special provisions for State Highway No. 82.
(a)
 The public necessity and convenience requires that a portion of State Highway No.
 82, which lies in and on a street of the City, be widened and reconstructed in accordance
 with the plans and specifications of the Department of Highways, State of Colorado.
 (b)
 The portions of the streets described in Subsection (e) are hereby dedicated to the
 people of the State as connecting links in and as a part of Colorado State Highway
 No. 82, recognizing that the streets or highways have priority over local intersecting
 streets.
 (c)
 The City recognizes the right of the Department of Highways, State of Colorado and
 its contractor or contractors, to proceed at once or at any time in the future, to
 construct the connecting links of Colorado State Highway No. 82 in the City on the
 portions of the streets involved.
 (d)
 No commercial activity or encroachment shall be permitted within the right-of-way
 boundaries of the streets, and that the width from curb to curb of the street shall
 be a minimum of fifty (50) feet.
 (e)
 Parking on the streets or portions thereof is hereby prohibited at certain places
 as specified in C.R.S. § 13-5-73 as amended. Parking when and where permitted shall
 be parallel unless otherwise specifically provided by other Sections of this Code
 or other ordinances of this City. Traffic-control devices on such streets shall conform
 to the uniform standards as adopted by the State Department of Highways. Upon the
 basis of engineering and traffic investigation and determination made by the State
 Department of Highways in behalf of the City it is hereby declared that when standard
 signs are erected giving notice thereof, the reasonable and true prima facie speed
 limit on portions of such streets shall be as specified in the following schedule.
 | 
Portion Affected
Name of Street
 | 
(Terminal Limit)
 | 
Speed Limit
 | 
 (1)
 | 
 Hallam
 | 
 W. City Limits to 7th St.
 | 
 30
 | 
 (2)
 | 
 7th
 | 
 Hallam to Main
 | 
 30
 | 
 (3)
 | 
 Main
 | 
 7th to Aspen
 | 
 30
 | 
 (4)
 | 
 Main
 | 
 Aspen to Original
 | 
 25
 | 
 (5)
 | 
 Original
 | 
 Main to Cooper
 | 
 25
 | 
 (6)
 | 
 Cooper
 | 
 Original to E. City Limits
 | 
 30
 | 
 (Code 1962, § 10-6-6; 
Ord. No. 37-1966
; Code 1971, § 22-11)

===== Sec. 24.04.110. - Enforcement of Chapter.
Any duly authorized official of the City may enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
 (Code 1962, § 10-6-8; Ord. No. 37-1966; Code 1971, § 22-12; 
Ord. No. 62-1994
, § 2)

===== Sec. 24.04.120. - Waiver of parking limitations.
(a)
 All vehicular traffic is prohibited within the pedestrian mall (as defined in Ordinance
 20, Series of 1973) and within Alley 89; provided, that the City Manager or the City
 Manager's designees may permit service and delivery vehicles, vehicles of medical
 personnel and of those desiring access to privately owned parking areas to enter into
 areas of the pedestrian mall and Alley 89, and to park therein, for such periods and
 under such conditions as may be determined by the City Manager or the City Manager's
 designees (taking into consideration the need for such services, deliveries and access,
 the level of traffic congestion within the area and the public safety).
 (b)
 The provisions of Subsection (a) to the contrary notwithstanding, all fire-fighting
 equipment, ambulances, police vehicles, other emergency vehicles, private vehicles
 carrying the injured or ill, public vehicles and public utility vehicles may enter
 into the pedestrian mall and Alley 89 and park therein when necessary to render medical,
 police, utility or other public services or aid to an injured or ill person, but only
 at such times, and for such periods necessary to render such services.
 (c)
 The City Manager or the City Manager's designees may issue parking permits waiving
 parking limitations under the following conditions:
 (1)
Handicapped persons.
 Permits waiving timed parking limitations applicable to spaces allowing parking for
 more than thirty (30) minutes, and authorizing said vehicles to park in "Handicapped
 Parking" zones may be issued to persons who have a temporary or permanent impairment
 that substantially limits the ability to move from place to place and who are residents
 of the Roaring Fork River Valley. Written verification of the existence of such a
 condition and the projected duration of the handicap must be submitted by the person's
 physician. In addition, a valid Colorado driver's license shall be required as proof
 of residence within the Roaring Fork River Valley. These permits shall be valid for
 the duration of the handicap. Permits issued for temporary impairments shall have
 an expiration date corresponding with the expected duration of the handicap. Permits
 issued for permanent disabilities shall be renewed annually.
 (2)
Service vehicles.
 Permits waiving timed parking limitations applicable to spaces allowing parking for
 more than thirty (30) minutes may be issued to qualified service vehicles that require
 extended parking in timed parking areas while on service calls. Service vehicle permits
 shall be issued pursuant to criteria and standards promulgated by the City Manager
 or the City Manager's designees. A City business license shall be required as a precondition
 to receipt of a service vehicle parking permit. These permits must be renewed on an
 annual basis.
 (3)
Construction vehicles.
 Permits waiving timed parking limitations at specific construction sites may be issued
 to the general contractor for the duration of construction activity within a timed
 parking area. Construction vehicle permits shall be issued pursuant to criteria and
 standards promulgated by the City Manager or the City Manager's designees. A City
 business license shall be required as a precondition to receipt of a construction
 vehicle-parking permit. Permits shall expire upon termination of construction at the
 construction site, issuance by the Building Department of a certificate of occupancy
 or letter of completion or notification of approval of the final building inspection
 at the construction site, whichever event first occurs.
 (4)
Delivery vehicles.
 Vehicles used to make regular deliveries of goods to businesses in Aspen may be issued
 a permit allowing parking in loading zones or waiving time parking limits while loading
 or unloading goods to a business. Delivery vehicle permits shall be issued pursuant
 to criteria and standards promulgated by the City Manager or the City Manager's designees.
 A City business license shall be required as a precondition to receipt of a delivery
 vehicle parking permit. These permits shall be renewed on an annual basis.
 (5)
 A processing fee in an amount prescribed by Subsection 
2.12.050
 of this Code shall be levied for the issuance of service or delivery vehicle and
 construction vehicle permits. There shall be no processing fee for the issuance of
 temporary handicapped person permits.
 (d)
 Official City and County vehicles, as identified by official license plates or a properly
 issued, valid placard, while on official government business shall be exempt at all
 times from all parking restrictions except restrictions applicable to parking spaces
 where:
 (1)
 Stopping, standing or parking of all vehicles is prohibited at all times;
 (2)
 Only special vehicles may be parked;
 (3)
 Parking is not allowed during specific periods of the day in order to accommodate
 heavy traffic; or
 (4)
 In any area restricted to short-term parking of thirty (30) minutes or less, as imposed
 by official signs or meters.
 (5)
 Only handicapped parking is allowed.
 (e)
 Vehicles displaying valid and duly issued placards identifying Aspen Fire Protection
 District volunteer firemen when such vehicle is actually parked by and under the control
 of such volunteer firemen shall be exempt from parking restrictions except restrictions
 applicable to parking spaces where:
 (1)
 Stopping, standing or parking of all vehicles is prohibited at all times;
 (2)
 Only special vehicles may be parked;
 (3)
 Parking is not allowed during specific periods of the day in order to accommodate
 heavy traffic;
 (4)
 In any area restricted to short-term parking of thirty (30) minutes or less, as imposed
 by official signs or meters; and
 (5)
 Only handicapped parking is allowed.
 (Code 1971, § 22-12.1; 
Ord. No. 93-1975
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 68-1976
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 57-1985
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1991
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 44-1991
, § 7; Ord. 
No. 77-1992
, § 11; 
Ord. No. 62-1994
, § 3)

===== Sec. 24.04.130. - Jurisdiction of courts over violations.
(a)
 Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable in the City Court by penalty as
 provided by this Code or other ordinance of the City regulating the use of public
 streets or in the County and District Courts of Pitkin County, as provided by the
 statutes of the State. The courts shall have jurisdiction to hear and try any person
 charged with such violation and if such person be guilty, to punish such person as
 provided by this Code or other ordinances of the City or the State statutes.
 (b)
 Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 223 of the Colorado Municipal Court Rules of
 Procedure or any other provision of law, the right of a jury trial shall not be available
 at a hearing where the cited person is charged in Municipal Court with a traffic or
 parking offense.
 (
Ord. No. 8-2001
, § 1)
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 8-2001, § 1, repealed former § 24.04.130 pertaining to jurisdiction of courts
 over violations and enacted a new § 24.04.130 as herein set out. Former § 24.04.130
 was derived from Code 1962, § 10-6-8, as amended by Code 1971, § 22-13, and Ord. No.
 37-1966.

===== Sec. 24.04.140. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 71-1976, § 1, repealed former § 22-14 [§ 24.04.140] which Section contained
 a penalty assessment schedule and established procedures for enforcement of traffic
 violations. Said Section was derived from Code 1962, § 10-1-5, and Ord. No. 17-1966,
 § 5.
 (Code 1971, § 22-14)

===== Sec. 24.04.150. - Handicap parking spaces.
(a)
 The owner of private property available for public use may install signs identifying
 parking spaces reserved for handicap parking only. Installation of such signs shall
 be a waiver of any objection the owner may assert concerning the enforcement of restrictions
 applicable to such parking spaces by duly authorized officials of the City, and such
 officials are hereby authorized and empowered to enforce such restrictions.
 (b)
 Each handicap parking space, whether on public or private property shall be marked
 with an upright sign, which sign may be stationary or portable, clearly identifying
 such parking space as reserved for handicap parking.
 (c)
 It is unlawful for any vehicle not bearing a valid license plate or duly issued placard
 authorizing parking in handicap parking spaces to park in any handicap parking space
 on public or private property which is clearly identified by a sign as being reserved
 for handicap parking.
 (d)
 It is unlawful for any person other than a person with a disability to park in any
 handicap parking space on public or private property which is clearly identified by
 a sign as being reserved for handicap parking unless such person is parking the vehicle
 for the benefit of a person with a disability.
 (e)
 Any law enforcement officer, authorized parking enforcement officer or duly authorized
 City official may check the identification of any person using a license plate or
 placard for persons with disabilities in order to determine whether such use is authorized.
 (
Ord. No. 62-1994, § 5
)

===== Sec. 24.04.160. - Unattended car alarms prohibited.
(a)
 It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having control over any vehicle in which
 an audible car alarm has been installed to allow such alarm to emit an audible alarm
 for more than five (5) minutes or, to allow such alarm to emit an audible alarm more
 than three (3) times in any one (1) hour regardless of the duration of the alarm sound.
 Any change or modulation of the alarm tone shall not be deemed to be a cessation of
 the alarm for purposes of calculating the five-minute period.
 (b)
 Unattended vehicles with operating audible car alarms are hereby declared to constitute
 a public nuisance. Any vehicle equipped with a car alarm which emits an audible alarm
 for more than five (5) minutes or, an alarm which emits an audible alarm more than
 three (3) times in any one (1) hour regardless of the duration of the alarm sound
 shall be deemed to be unattended. Any change, modulation or brief cessation of the
 alarm tone shall not be deemed to be a cessation of the alarm for purposes of calculating
 the five-minute period.
 (c)
 Police officers and other duly authorized officers of the City are hereby authorized
 to enter into, by any reasonable means, any unattended vehicle with a car alarm which
 has been emitting an audible alarm for more than five (5) minutes or, an audible alarm
 more than three (3) times in any one (1) hour regardless of the duration of the alarm
 sound, for purposes of abating the nuisance by disabling or turning off such car alarm.
 Additionally, if, in the discretion of the responding officer, the vehicle cannot
 be entered by reasonable means or after such entry, the officer is unable to disable
 the alarm, the officer may cause the vehicle to be towed to any garage maintained
 by the City or the Police Department for the storage of impounded vehicles or in any
 private garage approved by the City Manager for such purpose and designated on a list
 of such approved garages posted in his office or to be any other place of safety.
 Said removal and storage shall be at the sole cost, risk and expense of the owner
 or person in charge of said vehicle, and said cost of removal and storage of such
 vehicle shall be paid by the owner or person in charge thereof prior to the release
 of said vehicle. In the event of such towing, the owner or person having control of
 the vehicle shall be entitled to the rights set forth in 
Section 24.08.030
 below of this Code.
 (d)
 A violation of this Section shall be punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00)
 plus the cost of any towing pursuant to Subsection (c) above.
 (
Ord. No. 62-1994
, § 6)

===== Chapter 24.08. -         IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES        
Footnotes: 
 --- (
2
) ---
Cross reference— 
 Abandonment of motor vehicles prohibited, § 15.04.400; Keeping of junk restricted, § 15.04.420.
State Law reference— 
 2
 Abandoning vehicles prohibited, C.R.S. § 42-4-1603; Removal and disposal of abandoned
 vehicles, C.R.S. § 42-4-1601 et seq.

===== Sec. 24.08.010. - Authority to remove; situations enumerated when removal authorized.
Members of the Police Department and other duly authorized officials are hereby authorized
 to remove or have removed at their direction, a vehicle from any street, alley, highway,
 roadway, sidewalk, ditch or other public way or place, and from any restricted or
 prohibited parking area, to any garage maintained by the City or the Police Department
 for the storage of impounded vehicles or in any private garage approved by the City
 Manager for such purpose and designated on a list of such approved garages posted
 in his office or to any other place of safety, under any of the circumstances hereinafter
 enumerated. Said removal and storage shall be at the sole cost, risk and expense of
 the owner or person in charge of said vehicle, and said cost of removal and storage
 of such vehicle shall be paid by the owner or person in charge thereof prior to the
 release of said vehicle. The City Council hereby determines vehicles under the following
 circumstances to be obstructions to traffic and public nuisances. Such vehicles shall
 be subject to removal under this Section:
 (a)
 When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge or where such vehicle constitutes
 an obstruction to traffic.
 (b)
 When a vehicle upon a public way is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to
 traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is by way of physical injury or illness
 incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal.
 (c)
 When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or is parked illegally so as to
 constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic or left
 unattended on any public street with engine running or with keys in the ignition switch
 or lock.
 (d)
 When any vehicle is parked or left standing upon any area or portion of a public street
 in violation of or contrary to a parking limitation or prohibition established by
 the City, provided such area or portion of such public street has by him or her been
 posted with an official sign giving notice both of limitation or prohibition.
 (e)
 When a vehicle is parked at the same place continuously or substantially the same
 place continuously for a period of seventy-two (72) hours.
 (f)
 When any vehicle has been taken into custody by the City and the vehicle would thereby
 be left unattended on a street, highway or restricted parking area or other public
 way.
 (g)
 When the driver of a vehicle is reasonably suspected of using license plates or license
 permit unlawfully or a vehicle is driven or parked without proper license permit or
 driven or parked without proper license plates or license permits or with no license
 plates or license permit or driven or parked with an invalid or expired license permit.
 (h)
 When the driver of a vehicle is driving without an operator's license or chauffeur's
 license which is current and valid or who does not have such license in his immediate
 possession or drives a vehicle while his operator's license or chauffeur's license
 has been denied, suspended, canceled or revoked by the State or is unable to produce
 evidence of required insurance.
 (i)
 When a vehicle is found parked on or so near to any railroad track as to block the
 same in any manner.
 (j)
 When the driver of any vehicle or the vehicle which he or she is driving is reasonably
 suspected of having been involved in any hit and run accident.
 (k)
 When the driver of any vehicle is taken into custody for a suspected felony or misdemeanor
 or when the vehicle is suspected of containing stolen goods or other contraband.
 (l)
 When any vehicle is reasonably suspected of being a stolen vehicle or parts thereof
 to be stolen parts.
 (m)
 When any motor vehicle, by reason of having no muffler or a defective or inadequate
 muffler or a muffler which has been modified in such a manner as to amplify or increase
 the noise emitted by the motor of such vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally
 installed on the vehicle, emits an excessive or unusual noise.
 (n)
 When a vehicle is parked upon private property without the permission of the owner
 thereof.
 (o)
 When the records of the City indicate that a parking, standing or stopping violation
 citation has been issued on a vehicle by the City and has not been paid or otherwise
 legally disposed of for more than sixty (60) days from the date of issuance of such
 citation.
 (p)
 When a vehicle is in violation of the provisions of 
Section 24.04.160
 of this Code prohibiting unattended audible car alarms sounding for more than five
 (5) minutes.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-1; Ord. No. 13-1967, § 1; Code 1971, § 22-26; 
Ord. No. 8-1973
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 38-1987
, § 2; Ord. 
No. 62-1994
, § 4)

===== Sec. 24.08.020. - Charges for release; penalty.
It shall be unlawful for any person to move or take possession of any vehicle moved,
 removed, stored or impounded as provided for in this Title without first securing
 a certificate of no probable cause issued in accordance with 
Section 24.08.030
(e) of this Chapter or paying the charge for towing, removing, storing or impounding
 such vehicle plus a processing fee as set forth at Subsection 
2.12.050
 of this Code.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-2; Code 1971, § 22-27; 
Ord. No. 73-1982, § 1
; 
Ord. No. 38-1987
, § 3; 
Ord. No. 51-1991
, § 1;
Ord. No. 43-1996
, § 12)

===== Sec. 24.08.030. - Notices of impoundment and hearings for impounded vehicles.
Notices of impoundment and hearings regarding the removal and towing and storage fee
 assessments for vehicles removed and impounded pursuant to the authority contained
 in this Title shall be provided as follows:
 (a)
 Whenever a vehicle is impounded as authorized in this Chapter, the officer or employee
 of the City who removed the vehicle or caused it to be removed and impounded shall
 make a diligent effort to ascertain from the registration, other records in the vehicle
 or otherwise, the name and address of the owner or any other person legally entitled
 to possession of the vehicle, and shall immediately give or cause to be given notice
 in writing to such owner or person legally entitled to possession indicating the fact
 of such removal, the reason therefor and the place to which such vehicle has been
 removed and the right to a post-removal administrative hearing as set forth in this
 Section. Written notice shall be mailed within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal.
 (b)
 Any person demonstrating a legal entitlement to possession of an impounded vehicle
 has a right to a post-removal administrative hearing to determine whether there was
 probable cause to impound the vehicle and shall be so advised at the time the vehicle
 is retrieved. Demands for a hearing must be filed in writing on forms provided for
 such a hearing, with the City Manager within ten (10) days after the vehicle has been
 impounded or within ten (10) days after the mailing of the written notice of impounded
 vehicle required in Subsection (a) above, whichever occurs first.
 (c)
 Upon written request, a hearing shall be conducted before a hearing officer designated
 by the City Manager within forty-eight (48) hours of the receipt of a written demand
 therefor from the person seeking the hearing unless such person waives the right to
 a speedy hearing. Saturdays, Sundays and City holidays shall be excluded from the
 calculation of the 48-hour period. The hearing officer shall be someone other than
 the person who directed the removal and impounding and storage of the vehicle. The
 sole issue before the hearing officer shall be whether there was probable cause to
 impound the vehicle. 
Probable cause to impound
 shall mean such a state of facts as would lead a person of ordinary care and prudence
 to believe that there was sufficient breach of local, state or federal law to grant
 legal authority for the removal of the vehicle.
 (d)
 The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in an informal manner and shall not
 be bound by technical rules of evidence. The officer or other person responsible for
 the removal and impounding of the vehicle shall carry the burden of establishing that
 there was probable cause to remove and impound the vehicle in question. At the conclusion
 of the hearing, the hearing officer shall prepare a written decision. A copy of such
 decision shall be provided to the person demanding the hearing and the registered
 owner of the vehicle (if not the person requesting the hearing). The hearing officer's
 decision shall in no way affect any traffic or criminal proceedings in connection
 with the removal and impound in question, and any such traffic or criminal charges
 involved in such proceeding may only be challenged in the appropriate court. The decision
 of the hearing officer shall be final. Failure of the registered or legal owner or
 their agent to request or attend a scheduled post-removal hearing shall be deemed
 a waiver of the right to such hearing.
 (e)
 The hearing officer shall only determine that as to the vehicle in issue either (1)
 there was probable cause to impound the vehicle or (2) there was no such probable
 cause. In the event that the hearing officer determines that there was no probable
 cause, the hearing officer shall prepare and date a certificate of no probable cause,
 copies of which shall be given to the possessor of the vehicle and the officer or
 employee who caused the vehicle to be removed and impounded. Upon receipt of the possessor's
 copy of such certificate, the City or the official police garage having custody of
 the vehicle shall release the vehicle to its possessor. Upon a finding of no probable
 cause, towing and storage fees shall be assumed by the City. If such towing and storage
 fees have already been paid, they shall be reimbursed by the City.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-3; Code 1971, § 22-28; 
Ord. No. 73-1982
, § 2)

===== Sec. 24.08.040. - Notice to state department when owner unknown.
Whenever an officer or employee or agent of the City removes a vehicle from a public
 way under the provisions and authority of this Chapter and does not know or is not
 able to ascertain the name of the owner thereof or for any other reason is unable
 to give the notice to the owner as provided in 
Section 24.08.030
 above and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of
 three (3) days, then in that event, the Chief of Police shall immediately send or
 cause to be sent a written report of such removal by mail to the State Department
 whose duty it is to register motor vehicles. Such notice shall include a complete
 description of the vehicle, the date, time and place of removal, the reasons for such
 removal and the name of the garage or other place where the vehicle is stored with
 a request that the owner of the vehicle be notified immediately.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-4; Code 1971, § 22-29)

===== Sec. 24.08.050. - Disposal.
Whenever, pursuant to the terms of this Section, a vehicle has been stored on a lot
 maintained for the storage of impounded vehicles or at a garage designated for such
 storage for a period of thirty (30) days and no claim of ownership or the right to
 possession thereof has been made or when such claim has been made but not established
 to the satisfaction of the City Manager, and no suit or action to determine such claim
 has been instituted and impending, the Chief of Police may dispose of such vehicle
 as provided in this Section. The Chief of Police shall cause written notice to be
 given to all persons known by him or her to claim an interest in the vehicle. Such
 notice shall be given by delivering in person or by registered mail, addressed to
 the last known address of the business or residence of the person to be notified.
 The notice shall contain:
 (a)
 An itemized statement of the amount due to the City for removal of and storage of
 the vehicle showing the amount due at the time of notice.
 (b)
 A description of the vehicle.
 (c)
 A demand that the amount due the City as stated in the notice and such further claims
 as shall accrue shall be paid and the right to the possession of the vehicle be established
 to the satisfaction of the City Manager on or before a date mentioned, being not less
 than ten (10) days from the delivery of the notice if it is personally delivered or
 from the date of registration of the letter, and the statement that unless the amount
 so due the City is paid and the right to the possession of the vehicle is established
 to the satisfaction of the City Manager within the time specified, the vehicle will
 be advertised for sale and sold by auction at a specified time and place.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-5; Code 1971, § 22-30)

===== Sec. 24.08.060. - Auction.
In accordance with the terms of the notice given under 
Section 24.08.050
 above, a sale of the vehicle by auction may be had to satisfy the claim of the City
 for the storage and removal of the vehicle and to discharge the City from further
 responsibility in connection with the vehicle and from any duty to further retain
 or store the same. The sale shall be held at the place where the vehicle is stored
 or impounded or if such is manifestly unsuitable for the purpose, at the nearest suitable
 place. After the time for the payment of the claim and the establishment to the satisfaction
 of the City Manager of the right to possession of the vehicle has elapsed, if such
 notice was given when required, an advertisement of the sale describing the vehicle
 to be sold and stating the names of all persons known by the City Manager to claim
 an interest in the vehicle if there are any such persons, and the time and place of
 the sale shall be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper
 published in the county. The sales shall be had not less than fifteen (15) days from
 the date of the first publication.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-6; Code 1971, § 22-31)

===== Sec. 24.08.070. - Proceeds of sale.
From the proceeds of a sale under 
Section 24.08.060
 above, the City Manager shall satisfy the claim of the City for such charges for
 removal and storage of the vehicle, and for the reasonable or expenses for or of such
 notice, advertising and sale. The balance, if any, of the expenses will be paid into
 the treasury of the City and appropriated to the general fund. No for refund shall
 be made by any person entitled to the same except such claim is made within one (1)
 year from the date of any sale resulting in the payment of any such proceeds into
 the treasury. Such claim for refund shall be made to the City Manager who shall make
 a thorough examination of the claim so made. The failure on the part of any person
 so to request the initiation of a refund to him or her within one (1) year from the
 date of sale, shall be conclusive of the fact that he or she has no meritorious claim
 for such refund within the set period of one (1) year from the date of sale, he or
 she shall not thereafter commence any action, suit or proceeding whatsoever to obtain
 the same, and the City shall be under no liability to him or her whatsoever by reason
 of such sale of the payment of any part of the proceeds of such sale or the entire
 proceeds of the said sale in the treasury of the City.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-7; Code 1971, § 22-32)

===== Sec. 24.08.080. - Sale to City.
When any vehicle is offered for sale at auction pursuant to the terms of this Chapter
 and there is no bid or offered bid for the same, the City Manager shall declare the
 same to be sold to the City for the amount of the charges for the removal and storage
 of such vehicle and the charges and expenses of notice, advertisement and sale and
 shall place the vehicle in the custody of such department of the City as he, in his
 sole discretion, may determine for the sole benefit and use of the City.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-8; Code 1971, § 22-33)

===== Sec. 24.08.090. - No right of redemption.
There shall be no right of redemption from any sale made pursuant to the terms of
 this Chapter and after a vehicle has been sold pursuant to such terms, neither the
 City nor any officer, agent or employee thereof shall be liable for failure to deliver
 such vehicle to anyone other than the purchaser or purchasers at such sale.
 (Code 1962, § 10-4-9; Code 1971, § 22-34)

===== Chapter 24.12. - ASPEN TRAIL SYSTEM
Footnotes: 
 --- (
3
) ---
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, adopted May 24, 2022, repealed former §§ 24.12.010—24.12.080 of Ch. 24.12,
 and enacted new §§ 24.12.010—24.12.080 as set out herein. The former sections pertained
 to similar subject matter and derived from Code 1971, §§ 22-40—22-46; 
Ord. No. 28-1976
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 7-2009
; and 
Ord. No. 16-2014
.

===== Sec. 24.12.010. - Trail system.
The Aspen Trail System is defined as those trails managed or owned by the City and
 inventoried by the City Parks and Open Space Department. This Chapter applies to all
 trails lying and being within the City and all other trails outside the City limits
 over which the City has jurisdiction and control.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.020. - Vehicles prohibited.
It shall be prohibited to operate any powered vehicle on the Aspen Trail System except
 for the devices:
 (a)
 Electronic assisted bicycles, referred to herein as e-bikes, conforming to one (1)
 of the three (3) classes as defined in C.R.S. § 42-1-102(28.5), as amended, shall
 be allowed upon paved trails. E-bikes of any sort are prohibited upon natural surface
 singletrack trails of width less than five (5) feet.
 (b)
 Other powered devices such as one-wheels, electric skateboards and electric powered
 scooters shall be allowed upon paved trails. Such devices must be powered by electric
 motor not exceeding seven hundred fifty (750) watts, have a width of no more than
 thirty (30) inches, and weigh no more than sixty-five (65) pounds. Powered devices
 of any sort are prohibited upon natural surface singletrack trails.
 (c)
 Wheelchairs or any device designed to assist people with mobility impairments who
 use pedestrian rights-of-way.
 (d)
 City maintenance, ranger, police, fire, ambulance and emergency vehicles are permitted
 to operate necessary vehicles on the Aspen Trail System. In the event of an emergency,
 officers and employees thereof are authorized to permit emergency vehicles to enter
 upon the trails.
 (e)
 Special permission may be granted by the Parks and Recreation Director or the Parks
 and Open Space Director for use of motorized vehicles on the trails for special events,
 and for limited periods (to be specified on permits issued), provided, however, that
 such special permits shall not conflict with provisions of trail easements given across
 private property.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.030. - Requirements of bicycle rental businesses and courtesy bicycle fleets.
(a)
 Any bicycle or e-bike used on the Aspen Trail System shall be sound and safe for use
 and shall be equipped with a bell or other device for announcing on the trail system.
 Rental businesses that offer bicycles or e-bikes for rent and any business that offers
 bicycles or e-bikes for complimentary use shall be responsible for ensuring compliance
 with this requirement.
 (b)
 Rental businesses that offer five (5) or more bicycles or e-bikes for rent and any
 business that offers five (5) or more bicycles or e-bikes for complimentary use shall
 ensure that all users of the fleet bicycle have watched an orientation video for safe
 operation of bicycles and e-bikes in Aspen as prescribed by the Parks and Recreation
 Director.
 (c)
 Rental businesses that offer five (5) or more bicycles or e-bikes for rent and any
 business that offers five (5) or more bicycles or e-bikes for complimentary use shall
 adhere to any regional restrictions, conditions, or permit requirements placed upon
 any route, trail or roadway and shall educate their users of the same.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.040. - Leaving trail right-of-way, special conditions.
It shall be unlawful, in areas posted, to leave a trail right-of-way at such points
 as the trail passes on or through private property. The City or County shall enforce
 and prosecute any violation of this prohibition as a criminal action under this Chapter
 and, if necessary, as a property trespass on behalf of both the City (as holder of
 the easement) and the owner of the land trespassed upon. Special conditions and provisions
 which constitute limitations on trail usage imposed by private landowners as a condition
 for easements granted, shall be enforced, if posted, in the same manner as the prohibitions
 contained in this Chapter.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.050. - Nordic trail system.
(a)
 The Aspen Nordic Trail System shall be defined as those winter trails maintained by
 the Pitkin County Nordic Program that fall within the limits of the City.
 (b)
 Users of the Aspen Nordic System shall obey all trail designations and signage posted
 on the trails to express caution, to restrict use by type of travel, to prohibit pets,
 or to denote a trail closure.
 (c)
 It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or motorcycle
 upon the Aspen Nordic System.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.060. - Safe speed, announcing, yielding, crossings.
(a)
 Cyclists, users of other devices, and equestrians shall travel at a safe speed at
 all times and abide by any speed limits posted on the trail system. All users of trails
 shall obey any posted warning, caution, traffic control or other signs.
 (b)
 Trail users shall announce with an audible signal or voice before overtaking other
 trail users. Users of paved trails shall keep to the right half of the pavement at
 all times.
 (c)
 Bicyclists, skaters, users of other devises, pedestrians and others shall yield to
 equestrians. Bicyclists, skaters, and users of other devices shall yield to pedestrians.
 Bicyclists shall yield to skaters. Downhill users yield to uphill users. Faster users
 yield to slower users. Trail users shall stop at all roads and yield to any automobile
 traffic, unless the intersection is posted otherwise. Trail users shall not be required
 to stop at each private driveway. At such intersections automobiles shall yield to
 trail users. Horses are restricted to the unpaved portions of trails unless otherwise
 posted as provided by law.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.070. - Prohibited activities.
It shall be unlawful, on any trail right-of-way (or an adjacent property if access
 thereto is achieved through the trail system) to create loud noises; to use firearms
 or fireworks; to litter; to obstruct the trail system; to deface, cut, blaze or carve
 trees, fences, vegetation, trail signs, markers, bridges or structures; to camp or
 ignite campfires (except in designated areas); or to camp overnight. It shall be illegal
 to operate any bicycle or other approved device upon the trail system in a careless
 manner.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.080. - Use after dark.
(a)
 Users of the trail system after dark, on any type of bicycle or other allowed device
 shall be required to use a light as to be clearly visible to other users.
 (b)
 Persons using the trail system, especially during the late night and early morning
 hours, shall avoid the making of any noise such as to disturb residents within the
 area of the trail right-of-way.
 (
Ord. No. 11-2022
, § 1, 5-24-2022)

===== Sec. 24.12.090. - Enforcement by County officials.
Whenever this Chapter shall allow for the management of trail use or enforcement of
 these regulations by officials of the county, such reference shall be to officers
 of Pitkin County, Colorado, and such rights shall accrue only if so provided by agreement
 between the City and County, and if permitted by law.
 (Code 1971, § 22-47; 
Ord. No. 28-1976
, § 1)

===== Sec. 24.12.100. - Penalties.
The violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be punished by a fine, imprisonment
 or both a fine and imprisonment, as set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code. Each day any violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
 (Code 1971, § 22-48; 
Ord. No. 28-1976
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1996
, § 15)

===== Chapter 24.16. - RESIDENTIAL PERMIT PARKING PROGRAM


===== Sec. 24.16.010. - Residential permit zone map.
The City Manager or designee shall determine which residential areas of the City would
 benefit by inclusion in a Residential Permit Zone (RPZ). The City Manager shall designate
 the boundaries of each zone, identifying each zone by a letter (Zone A, Zone B, Zone
 C and so on as necessary), and cause a map to be published showing the zone boundaries
 (Official Aspen Residential Permit Parking Program Map or RPPP Map).
 (Code 1971, § 22-50.1; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 (part))

===== Sec. 24.16.020. - High occupancy vehicle (HOV) zones.
In order to provide preferential parking for High Occupancy Vehicles (HOVs), the City
 Manager shall also designate HOV Zones which shall also be identified on the RPPP
 Map.
 (Code 1971, § 22-50.2; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 (part))

===== Sec. 24.16.030. - Modifications of zones.
If the City Manager determines that modifying the boundaries of an established parking
 zone or establishing a new parking zone is in the public interest, the City Manager
 shall designate the boundaries thereof and hold a public meeting after giving ten
 (10) days notice of the same by publication in a daily newspaper of general circulation
 within the City. After such meeting, the City Manager may reconsider the propriety
 of the designated zones or may adjust the boundaries thereof. If the City Manager
 determines to modify an existing zone or to create a new zone, the City Manager shall
 cause a revised RPPP map to be published showing the revised or new zones.
 (Code 1971, § 22-50.3; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.16.040. - Permit types.
The following permit types are established.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.16.050. - Resident permit.
(a)
 Commencing on November 15, 2018, upon payment of the prescribed fee, a maximum of
 four (4) resident permits and one (1) guest permit shall be issued for each residence
 within a residential permit-parking zone (RPZ). Commencing on November 15, 2019, and
 each year thereafter, upon payment of the prescribed fee, a maximum of three (3) resident
 permits and one (1) guest permit shall be issued for each residence within a residential
 permit-parking (RPZ). Permits shall be valid for one (1) year.
 (b)
 One (1) resident permit shall be issued, upon payment of the prescribed fee, for any
 one (1) vehicle either owned by a business located within a residential-permit parking
 zone and holding a currently valid City business license or owned by a qualified nonprofit
 institution located within a residential-permit parking zone.
 (c)
 An applicant for a permit shall present, (a) his/her current motor vehicle registration,
 and (b) a current operator's license with the application. No permit shall be issued
 in the event that either the registration or license shows an address not within the
 RPZ unless the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City Manager or the
 City Managers designees that the applicant is, in fact, a resident of the RPZ and
 that the vehicle is used primarily by him/her.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.1; 
Ord. No. 30-1994,
 § 1 [part]; 
Ord. No. 23-2018
)

===== Sec. 24.16.060. - Residential guest permit.
One (1) residential guest permit shall be provided, upon payment of the prescribed
 fee, if any, to each residential, business or qualified nonprofit institution address
 receiving at least one (1) resident permit within an RPZ, subject to the following
 conditions:
 Residential guest permits shall be issued for the exclusive use of resident permit
 holders' guests only during periods when the guests are actually visiting at a resident
 permit holder's address. Residential guest permits shall display the host resident's
 resident permit number. Residents shall instruct their guests in the proper display
 and use of the guest permit.
 Residential guest permits issued to business or nonprofit institution guests within
 an RPZ shall be valid only while the guest is actually engaged in business at a resident
 permit holder's business or institution address. Residential guest permits issued
 to businesses or institutions within an RPZ shall display the host business's or institution's
 resident permit number. Businesses or institutions shall instruct their guests in
 the proper display and use of the guest permit.
 Residential guest permits may also be issued directly to guests by the Transportation
 Department subject to reasonable conditions imposed by the Transportation Director.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.2; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.16.070. - Lodge guest permit.
Lodge guests permits shall be issued, upon payment of the prescribed fee, to lodges
 within an RPZ for the exclusive use of lodge guests during their period of stay at
 the lodge. Lodge employees shall fill out the lodge guest permit completely, using
 permanent ink and instruct their guests in the proper display and use of the lodge
 guest permit. The lodge guest permit shall be valid either: (a) only during the guest's
 stay at the lodge or (b) for seven (7) days from the date of issue to the guest, whichever
 is less.
 Lodge guest permits may also be issued to individuals with unusual or special needs
 at the discretion of the Transportation Director. The Transportation Director shall
 annually report to the City Manager in an inventory of all lodge guest permits so
 issued.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.3; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.16.080. - High occupancy vehicle (HOV) permit.
HOV permits shall be issued to vehicles with three (3) or more occupants for use on
 the day of issue only.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.4)

===== Sec. 24.16.090. - Day pass permit.
Day pass permits shall be available for any motor vehicle upon payment of the prescribed
 daily fee.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.5)

===== Sec. 24.16.100. - Business vehicle permit.
To avoid placing an onerous burden upon businesses located within the commercial core
 that require a vehicle for deliveries, business vehicle permits shall be made available
 upon payment of the prescribed fee, to allow business delivery vehicles to park in
 the Residential Permit Zones. Businesses shall be required to justify a business vehicle
 permit for business delivery use (other than simply commuting) and adhere to strict
 qualifications. Businesses shall also be required to use the designated loading zones
 in the commercial core or to otherwise pay the hourly fee for parking.
 (Code 1971, § 22-51.6)

===== Sec. 24.16.110. - Permits nontransferable.
Permits, except the residential guest permit, shall not be transferable, and may be
 revoked in the event the Transportation Department determines that the owner of the
 vehicle or the vehicle itself for which a permit has been issued no longer meets the
 eligibility requires of 
Sections 24.16.040
 through 
24.16.100
. Upon no longer meeting the eligibility requirements, the holder of the permit shall
 surrender such permit to the Transportation Department.
 (Code 1971, § 22-52.1)

===== Sec. 24.16.120. - Falsely obtaining permits prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to represent himself or herself as eligible
 for a permit under this division or to furnish any false information in or in conjunction
 with, an application for a residential parking permit.
 (Code 1971, § 22-52.2)

===== Sec. 24.16.130. - Hours of enforcement.
The parking restrictions stipulated below shall be enforced from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00
 p.m. Monday through Friday (official holidays excepted), unless otherwise specified.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.1)

===== Sec. 24.16.140. - Resident permits restricted by zone.
Resident permits shall be valid only in the same residential permit-parking zone in
 which the residence, business or qualified institution is located.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.2)

===== Sec. 24.16.150. - Residential guest permits restricted by zone.
The residential guest permit shall be valid only in the same Residential Permit-Parking
 Zone in which the host residence, business or qualified institution is located.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.3)

===== Sec. 24.16.160. - Lodge guest permits restricted by zone.
The lodge guest permit shall be valid only in the same Residential Permit-Parking
 Zone in which the host lodge is located.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.4)

===== Sec. 24.16.170. - Reserved parking areas.
In any area designated as a Residential Permit Zone, which is posted as 'No Parking'
 with certain permits exempt, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor
 vehicle on the street between the posted hours unless there is affixed to windshield
 of such motor vehicle a valid parking permit corresponding to the permits which are
 posted as exempt; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not
 apply to emergency, government, delivery or service vehicles while engaged in such
 delivery or service.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.5)

===== Sec. 24.16.180. - Time restricted parking areas in Residential Permit Zones.
In any area designated as a Residential Permit Zone, which is posted as 'Time Restricted'
 with certain permits exempt, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor
 vehicle on the street longer than the posted time limit unless there is a valid and
 properly-displayed parking permit on the vehicle corresponding to the permits which
 are posted as exempt; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
 not apply to emergency, government, delivery or service vehicles while engaged in
 such delivery or service. In any "Time Restricted Zone" a vehicle is only allowed
 one (1) visit per day during enforcement hours.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.6; 
Ord. No. 23-2018
)

===== Sec. 24.16.190. - High occupancy vehicle (HOV) parking areas in Residential Permit Zones.
In any area designated as a High Occupancy Vehicle Permit Zone, it shall be unlawful
 for any person to park any motor vehicle during the posted hours of enforcement, unless
 there is a valid HOV parking permit properly displayed on the vehicle or provided,
 however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to emergency, government,
 delivery or service vehicles while engaged in such delivery or service.
 After the posted hours of enforcement, the HOV area shall be enforced as a 'Time Restricted'
 area as described in 
Section 24.16.180
 above.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.7)

===== Sec. 24.16.200. - Time restricted parking areas outside of Residential Permit Zones.
In any area not designated as a Residential Permit Zone, which is posted as 'Time
 Restricted', it shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on the
 street longer than the posted time limit unless there is a valid and properly-displayed
 service vehicle, handicap or other authorizing parking permit on the vehicle; provided,
 however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to emergency, government,
 delivery or service vehicles which engaged in such delivery or service.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.8)

===== Sec. 24.16.210. - Loading zones.
In any area designated as a loading zone, it shall be unlawful for any person to park
 any vehicle longer than one-half (½) hour or for the duration of active loading/unloading,
 whichever is less, unless there is a valid and properly-displayed service vehicle
 permit; provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to
 marked delivery, service or lodge van vehicles while actively engaged in such delivery
 or service.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.9)

===== Sec. 24.16.220. - No exemption created.
Display of any of the permits referenced in 
Sections 24.16.040
 through 
24.16.100
 above shall not exempt a vehicle from the provisions of 
Title 24
 of this Code, Traffic and Motor Vehicles. Display of permit does not convey any privileges
 other than that of exceeding the posted time limit in designated areas. It does not
 authorize parking in any other restricted or prohibited zone or parking space.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.10)

===== Sec. 24.16.230. - No guarantee of parking space.
Display of any of the permits referenced in 
Sections 24.16.010
 through 
24.16.100
 above shall not guarantee or reserve a parking space.
 (Code 1971, § 22-53.11; 
Ord. No. 30-1994
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.16.240. - Construction staging area, parking and emergency vehicle access management plan.
To ensure proper public health, welfare and safety, the City requires approval of
 job site plans describing construction staging areas, location and number of construction-related
 vehicles, and ensuring proper emergency vehicle access for construction projects within
 the City. These plans are required for all residential construction or remodeling
 of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet or more, for any construction or
 remodeling involving multi-family buildings (three (3) or more units) or for any construction
 or remodeling involving commercial buildings. All other construction activity shall
 be considered exempt from these provisions.
 The construction project shall be issued street parking permits for the expected duration
 of the project for a fee. Parking permits issued, pursuant to an approved Construction
 Staging Area, Parking and Emergency Vehicle Access Management Plan, shall permit the
 all-day on-street parking of construction related vehicles within the specified construction
 parking area for the duration of the construction project. Construction vehicles parked
 outside of the approved area or after the specified construction duration shall be
 considered in violation.
 The Chief Building Official shall require submission of a Construction Staging Area,
 Parking and Emergency Vehicle Access Management Plan with submission of building permit
 documents. A building permit shall not be issued until such plan has been reviewed
 and approved by the Chief Building Official.
 All construction staging and construction parking shall be confined to the areas defined
 in the approved plan for the jobsite. Workers shall be encouraged to carpool. Emergency
 access, as described in the approved plan for the jobsite, shall at no time be blocked.
 A stop work order may be issued upon noncompliance.
 (
Ord. No. 35-2002
, § 1)

===== Chapter 24.20. - DELIVERY VEHICLES


===== Sec. 24.20.010. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
Commercial core
 includes all property within the area bordered by Durant to the south, Monarch to
 the west, Main Street to the north and Spring to the east, plus all properties that
 abut Main Street on the north side of that street. These boundaries may be amended
 from time to time by City Council.
Deliveries
 are defined as the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of goods, merchandise
 and freight.
Delivery vehicles
 are defined as vehicles which are used to make regular deliveries, as defined herein,
 to businesses in Aspen and which may be issued a permit allowing parking in loading
 zones.
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.20.020. - Restrictions on deliveries.
Except for vehicles delivering newspapers or fast food, such as pizza and sandwiches,
 the following time restrictions shall apply to deliveries made in the commercial core
 of the City (also see the illustrative table below):
 (a)
 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.: Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., no deliveries
 may be made in the City.
 (b)
 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.: Between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., deliveries
 may be conducted from a legally parked vehicle on a street, alleyway or truck loading
 zone in the City.
 (c)
 10:00 a.m. to 9.00 p.m.: Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., deliveries
 may be conducted only from the alleyways or truck loading zones of the City.
Time Period
 | 
Streets
 | 
Alleys
 | 
Loading Zones
 | 
 9:00 p.m.—5:00 a.m.
 | 
 no deliveries
 | 
 no deliveries
 | 
 no deliveries
 | 
 5:00 a.m.—10:00 a.m.
 | 
 deliveries permitted
 | 
 deliveries permitted
 | 
 deliveries permitted
 | 
 10:00 a.m.—9:00 p.m.
 | 
 no deliveries
 | 
 deliveries permitted
 | 
 deliveries permitted
 | 
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.20.030. - Regulations on delivery vehicles.
(a)
 Operators of delivery vehicles shall cooperate with City personnel regarding snow
 removal and street cleaning operations.
 (b)
 Delivery vehicles shall comply with the idle ordinance and other relevant City ordinances,
 including but not limited to the Model Traffic Code.
 (c)
 A business using a delivery vehicle shall possess a valid City business license or
 be exempted from the requirement by the City Finance Department.
 (d)
 A delivery vehicle shall either be conspicuously marked as a delivery vehicle with
 plain and legible identification including the business name and phone number affixed
 permanently to the side of the vehicle or the vehicle shall display a valid delivery
 permit issued by the City Transportation and Parking Department.
 (e)
 The use of a delivery vehicle shall be required due to (1) the bulk of the items being
 delivered or (2) the need for repeated and frequent trips to load or unload the vehicle.
 (f)
 The vehicle must be actively involved in a delivery for the entire period of any exemption
 granted. Specifically, the exempted status does not cover time taken for personal
 business, business not specifically involving the delivery and break periods.
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999
, § 1 (part))

===== Sec. 24.20.040. - Exemption of delivery vehicles from certain parking limitations.
(a)
 Delivery vehicles which comply with the requirements of this Chapter, including the
 time restrictions set forth in 
Section 24.20.020
 and the general regulations set forth in 
Section 24.20.030
, are exempt from certain parking limitations in Aspen's Commercial Core and in surrounding
 Residential Parking Zones, as set forth below:
 (1)
 In the Commercial Core a delivery vehicle shall be allowed to use all truck loading
 zones and alleys while the driver is completing a delivery.
 (2)
 In the Residential Parking Zones surrounding the Commercial Core, a delivery vehicle
 shall be exempt from the two (2) hour limitation while the driver is completing a
 delivery.
 (b)
 Delivery vehicles which comply with the general regulations set forth in 
Section 24.20.030
 and which meet all of the following requirements are exempt from the restrictions
 on deliveries from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.:
 (1)
 The delivery vehicle may not exceed fifteen (15) feet in length, and
 (2)
 The delivery vehicle may not have any refrigeration equipment, and
 (3)
 The delivery vehicle may not be diesel powered, and
 (4)
 The delivery vehicle may not have automated lift gates, and
 (5)
 The delivery shall not cause undue noise or disturbance to residents or businesses
 in the area.
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999
, § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.20.050. - Appeal.
(a)
 A business receiving deliveries or a delivery company may appeal the requirements
 of this Chapter to the Commercial Core and Lodging Commission (CCLC).
 (b)
Mailing of notice.
 At least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing, the party bringing the appeal
 shall send notice by first class, postage prepaid U.S. mail to all owners of property
 within three hundred (300) feet of the business or businesses to which deliveries
 are made.
 (c)
Content of notice.
 Every notice shall include the name and address of the party bringing the appeal,
 a description of the relief sought, the date, time and place of the hearing, a reference
 to the CCLC as the decision-making party conducting the hearing, and such other information
 as may be required to fully apprise the public of the nature of the application.
 (d)
Quorum.
 No appeal may be heard by the CCLC without a quorum being present. An affirmative
 vote of the members present, but in no event less than three (3) affirmative votes,
 is required to grant relief from the strict requirements of this Chapter.
 (e)
Appeal criteria.
 No appeal may be granted absent findings by the CCLC (1) that the business or delivery
 company cannot reasonably comply with the terms of this Chapter and (2) that the grant
 of the variance will not unduly burden or affect the residents and businesses of the
 neighborhood.
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999,
 § 1 [part])

===== Sec. 24.20.060. - Violations and penalties.
A violation of any of the provisions of this Code shall constitute a misdemeanor,
 punishable upon conviction by a fine, imprisonment or both a fine and imprisonment,
 as set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day or portion
 thereof that a violation of the provisions of this Code occurs or continues unabated.
 (
Ord. No. 29-1999
, § 1 [part])

===== Chapter 24.24. - HYBRID VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE REBATE AND PARKING RELIEF PROGRAM


===== Sec. 24.24.010. - Hybrid Vehicle Registration Fee Rebate Program.
There is hereby created a Hybrid Vehicle Registration Fee Rebate Program within the
 City to encourage the ownership of low emission vehicles in the City.
 (
Ord. No. 37-2003
, § 1)

===== Sec. 24.24.020. - Qualifications, administration and rebate amount.
(a)
 For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Hybrid vehicle
 shall mean a vehicle that meets the then-applicable definition of the Super Ultra
 Low Emission Vehicle (SULEV) Standards or better, promulgated by the California Air
 Resource Board (CARB) and that meets the definition of 
hybrid vehicle
 per the U.S. Department of Energy (www.ott.doe.gov/hev).
Resident of the City
 shall mean any person who resides in the City during the calendar year for which
 a Hybrid Vehicle Registration Fee Rebate is sought.
 (b)
 Any resident of the City who is the owner of a hybrid vehicle that meets the then-applicable
 SULEV standards and pays an annual motor vehicle registration fee to the State, within
 the same calendar year following the payment of a motor vehicle registration fee so
 long as this Chapter shall be in force, may apply, on such forms as provided by the
 Director of Parking, for an annual SULEV Hybrid Vehicle Registration Fee Rebate from
 the City in the amount of one-hundred dollars ($100.00.)
 (c)
 The application for a rebate shall be reviewed by the City's Transportation and Parking
 Department to determine the ownership and type of vehicle for which an application
 is made. The Director of Parking shall further review the application for completeness
 and to verify residence eligibility. All applicants may prove their resident status
 by evidence that they were registered voters of the City for the full calendar year
 for which the rebate applies. Any resident who is barred from registering to vote
 due to noncitizenship or due to other disqualification shall provide alternative proof
 of residency, as may be required by the Parking Director.
 (d)
 The Director of Parking shall administer this 
Chapter 24.24
 and shall prepare such forms and adopt such regulations consistent with this Chapter,
 as he or she deems necessary to implement the same.
 (
Ord. No. 37-2003
, § 1)

===== Sec. 24.24.030. - Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program.
There is hereby created a Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program within the City to encourage
 the ownership and use of low emission vehicles in the City.
 (
Ord. No. 37-2003
, § 1)

===== Sec. 24.24.040. - Qualifications, administration and parking privileges.
(a)
 Any person who is the owner of a hybrid vehicle that meets the then-applicable SULEV
 standards, may apply for an Aspen Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program Permit every year
 so long as this Chapter shall be in force on such forms as provided by the Director
 of Parking. The Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program Permit shall allow qualifying hybrid
 vehicles to park in any Residential Permit Zone or High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) Zone
 space. Vehicles that display a valid hybrid vehicle permit will be exempt from the
 two-hour parking restriction in Residential Permit Zones and will not be required
 to display an additional permit in High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) Zone spaces.
 (b)
 The application for a Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program Permit shall be reviewed by the
 City's Transportation and Parking Department to determine the SULEV hybrid status
 of the type of vehicle for which an application is made. Qualifying SULEV hybrid vehicles
 will be issued Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program Permits. Such permits are not transferable
 and will only be valid on hybrid vehicles that meet Super Ultra Low Emission Vehicles
 Standards or better.
 (
Ord. No. 37-2003
, § 1)

===== Sec. 24.24.050. - No exemption created.
Display of a Hybrid Vehicle Parking Program Permit shall not exempt a vehicle from
 the provisions of 
Title 24
 of this Code. Display of a permit on a qualifying vehicle does not convey any privileges
 other than that of exceeding the posted time limit in Residential Permit Zones or
 of parking in High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) parking areas without a valid HOV parking
 permit. It does not authorize parking in any other restricted or prohibited zone or
 parking space. It does not authorize exemption from the seventy-two-hour parking limitation
 (
Section 24.08.010
(e)), nor any other parking limitation or prohibition posted on an official sign (
Section 24.08.010
(d)).
 (
Ord. No. 37-2003
, § 1)
