# CITY OF ASPEN MUNICIPAL CODE — TITLE 13 - HEALTH AND QUALITY OF ENVIRONMENT
# Source: Municode (api.municode.com), Supp. No. 7 Update 1, codified through Ord. No. 06-2026 (enacted 2026-03-24)
# Retrieved: 2026-07-22


===== TITLE 13 -       HEALTH AND QUALITY OF ENVIRONMENT      
Footnotes: 
 --- (
1
) ---
Editor's note—
 Section 3 of Ord. No. 35-1985 revised former Ch. 11 by designating §§ 11-1.1—11-1.10
 as Article I, §§ 11-2.1—11-2.9 as Article II and §§ 11-3.1—11-3.3 as Article III,
 to allow for the inclusion in said chapter of new Article IV. During the 1995 recodification,
 each of the above Articles were codified as separate chapters to this Title 13.
Cross reference— 
 Rabies control, § 6.12.010 et seq.; noise abatement, Title 18; solid waste, Title 12; impoundment of motor vehicles, § 24.08.010.

===== Chapter 13.01. - ECOLOGICAL BILL OF RIGHTS


===== Sec. 13.01.010. - Ecological Bill of Rights.
The City shall from time to time adopt an Ecological Bill of Rights that establishes
 and projects the City's philosophy for protecting environmental quality. The Ecological
 Bill of Rights shall serve as one (1) of the guides to all land use development and
 planning, based on the philosophy of "allowing the use of our natural resources, but
 not depleting them beyond their ability to recover at their natural rate." The City
 shall from time to time adopt and update action steps to accomplish the goals in the
 Ecological Bill of Rights. Once adopted, the Ecological Bill of Rights shall be made
 available for public inspection in the City Clerk's office, the Community Development
 Department and the Environmental Health Department.
 (
Ord. No. 13-2000
, § 1)

===== Chapter 13.04. -         WATER QUALITY        
Footnotes: 
 --- (
2
) ---
Cross reference— 
 Water service.

===== Sec. 13.04.010. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter shall have the meanings
 ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
 meaning:
Composting Toilet
 shall mean a human waste disposal system consisting of a toilet that uses little
 or no water connected to a specially built tank in which waste material is decomposed
 by aerobic bacteria.
Enjoined
 shall include temporary, preliminary and permanent injunctive relief.
Municipal water supplies
 means all surface and underground water rights, whether absolutely or conditionally
 decreed, of the City, which are used or are capable of being used for any beneficial
 purpose, including, without limitation, municipal, commercial, aesthetic, irrigation,
 minimum stream flow, fish and game propagation, recreation, domestic, industrial uses
 and augmentation and exchange.
Nonpoint source
 means any source of pollutant other than a point source and includes, without limitation,
 water use and development practices, activities which encroach on riparian areas,
 vegetation disturbance, soil disturbance and earth movement, impervious cover and
 storm water runoff from developed areas.
Permit
 means a permit lawfully issued pursuant to Public Law 92-500, the Federal Water Pollution
 Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.) or pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-8-501
 et seq.
Person
 means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, municipality, district,
 federal or state agency, commission or other state or federal body or political subdivision
 thereof.
Point source
 means any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but not limited
 to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container,
 rolling stock or concentrated animal feeding operation from which pollutants are or
 may be discharged.
Pollutant
 means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
 munitions, chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked
 or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural
 waste dirt and slurry.
Presumption
 means that any person charged with the waste of water resources shall bear the burden
 of proving that the water diversions which were wasted did not contribute to or result
 in a degradation of the water quality standards set forth in 
Section 13.04.020
 below.
Sources
 means any area which contributes to the water supply of any stream or river and includes,
 without limitation, any drainage basin or underground aquifer.
Waste
 means the failure to apply water diverted from any source which contributes to municipal
 water supplies to a beneficial use and includes, without limitation, causing or permitting
 the application of water in excess of that reasonably required to accomplish the purpose
 or purposes for which the water is diverted; permitting water to escape from ditches,
 canals or other structures in excess of reasonable loss; and any diversion of water
 rights decreed for a given purpose under circumstance which cannot reasonably justify
 such usage.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.1; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983,
 § 2; 
Ord. No. 16-2012
)

===== Sec. 13.04.020. - Water quality standards.
Within the jurisdictional areas set forth in 
Section 13.04.030
 below, the standards for water quality shall be those standards adopted from time
 to time by the Water Quality Control Commission pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 25-8-202(b)
 and 25-8-404, as applicable to the waters located within the jurisdiction of this
 Chapter. Said standards are incorporated herein by reference.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.2; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 2, 3[a])

===== Sec. 13.04.030. - Jurisdiction for water quality.
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 31-15-707(1), and for the purpose of maintaining and protecting
 its municipal water supply from injury and pollution, the City shall exercise regulatory
 and supervisory jurisdiction within the incorporated limits of the City of Aspen and
 over all streams and sources contributing to municipal water supplies for a distance
 of five (5) miles above the points from which municipal water supplies are diverted.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.3; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 2)

===== Sec. 13.04.040. - Discharges unlawful.
Within the jurisdictional areas defined in 
Section 13.04.030
 above, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge from either a point on a
 nonpoint source any pollutant or engage in any activity which will result in the degradation
 of water quality below the standards set forth in 
Section 13.04.020
 above.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.4; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 2, 3(b))

===== Sec. 13.04.050. - Waste prohibited.
Within the jurisdictional areas defined in 
Section 13.04.030
 above, it shall be unlawful for any person to waste water resources. The failure
 to apply water to a beneficial use shall give rise to a presumption of waste.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.5; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 2, 3[c])

===== Sec. 13.04.060. - Compliance with permits.
Compliance with an applicable permit held by any person charged with a violation of
 this Chapter shall constitute an absolute defense to any such violation.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.6; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 2)

===== Sec. 13.04.070. - On-site waste disposal system.
(a)
 It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building used for residence
 or business purposes within the City to construct or reconstruct an on-site sewage
 disposal device for the purpose of collecting, storing or disposing of sewage; provided,
 however, that temporary, self-contained privies may be placed on construction sites
 or at public gatherings for the duration of the construction or attraction. These
 temporary facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
 times.
 (b)
 If any structure within the jurisdictional limits defined in 
Section 13.04.030
 above is currently being served by an on-site sewage disposal system and that system
 fails or malfunctions to the extent that it no longer is treating waste effectively
 and a danger is created that pollution of the City's water supply or ground water
 may occur, the owner or occupant shall make application within five (5) days from
 the date on which the owner or occupant first learns of said failure or malfunction
 to the applicable sanitation district for attachment of the structure to the public
 sewage system. If said structure is not within a sanitation district or capable of
 being attached to a public sewage system, the owner or occupant shall be responsible
 for controlling, repairing or replacing said failure or malfunction within five (5)
 days from the date on which said owner or occupant first learns of said failure or
 malfunction. If such an on-site sewage disposal system is to be installed, it shall
 be done so in conformance with "Pitkin County Regulations on Sewage Disposal Systems."
 Any malfunction or failure of an on-site waste disposal system is hereby defined to
 be a public nuisance.
 (c)
 Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, at the sole discretion of the
 Environmental Health Director, a composting toilet may be constructed upon publicly
 owned property or upon privately owned property within the City of Aspen in excess
 of five (5) acres. Such composting toilet shall be constructed and maintained pursuant
 to standards issued by the Environmental Health Department. If in the opinion of the
 Environmental Health Director any approved and installed composting toilet constitutes
 a potential threat to the public health, then the Environmental Health Director shall
 require improvements to the constructed toilet or to the maintenance procedures or
 shall revoke permission for use of the composting toilet. Any such requirements, including
 removal of the toilet, shall be completed by the property owner within ten (10) days
 of notice from the Environmental Health Director.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.7; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 2, 3[c]; 
Ord. No. 16- 2012)

===== Sec. 13.04.080. - Disposal of animal carcasses.
Any animal which shall be killed or die from any cause in the City or within one hundred
 (100) feet of the banks of Maroon Creek, Castle Creek, Hunter Creek, the Roaring Fork
 River or any tributary thereto that is within the jurisdictional limits defined in
Section 13.04.030
 above shall be at once removed to a designated landfill by the owner or person having
 had such animal in his or her possession, control or charge and the carcass of such
 animal shall be buried or disposed of in a sanitary manner. If ownership of the animal
 cannot be determined, it shall be the responsibility of the animal control department
 to pick up and dispose of such an animal carcass as herein provided.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.8; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 2, 3[c])

===== Sec. 13.04.090. - Specific activities causing pollution.
(a)
 It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to have, keep or maintain any grazing
 livestock or other animal within one hundred (100) feet of any water treatment facility,
 reservoir, intake point, distribution stream, trench, inlet pipe or drain comprising
 a part of the City of Aspen municipal water facility.
 (b)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe or swim in any of the reservoirs or other
 part of the Aspen water utility.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.9; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 2)

===== Sec. 13.04.100. - Accumulation of standing water on land regulated.
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any premises, lot or parcel
 of land within the jurisdictional limits defined in 
Section 13.04.030
 above to allow an accumulation of standing water that is or is likely to become offensive
 or injurious to the public health. Any person owning or occupying any premises, lot
 or parcel of land whereupon water shall be standing as aforesaid shall be deemed guilty
 of creating and maintaining a public nuisance.
 (Code 1971, § 11-1.10; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983,
 §§ 2, 3(c))

===== Chapter 13.08. - AIR QUALITY


===== Sec. 13.08.010. - Air quality, declaration of policy.
The City Council hereby finds and declares that air quality is an important component
 of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens and community of the City and that
 the air quality in and around the City is threatened by various pollutants. The City
 Council finds and declares that it has a duty to not only protect and improve the
 air quality in and around the City for the health, safety and general welfare of the
 City but also for the economic and aesthetic well-being of the City as a resort community
 and to preserve the scenic natural resources of the community. To this end, it is
 the purpose of these 
Sections 13.08.010
 through 
13.08.060
 to achieve the maximum practical degree of air purity possible by requiring the use
 of all available practical methods and techniques to control, prevent and reduce air
 pollution throughout the City and to maintain a cooperative air quality program with
 the County, the State and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. It is
 further declared that the control, prevention and abatement of air pollution within
 the City is a matter of significant local interest and that the following regulations
 are enacted by the exercise of the City's police powers, including those granted to
 the City pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-7-128, as amended.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 6; 
Ord. No. 74-1992,
 § 1)

===== Sec. 13.08.020. - Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter shall have the meanings
 ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
 meaning:
Charbroiler
 shall mean a cooking device in a commercial food service establishment, either gas
 fired or using charcoal or other fuel, upon which grease drips down upon an open flame,
 charcoal or embers.
Commission
 shall mean the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission.
Decorative gas appliance
 shall mean a device utilizing natural gas as a fuel designed to appear as a real
 fireplace with a four (4) to five (5) inch Class B vent, fixed glass doors and a fire
 box no deeper than twenty-four (24) inches.
Food service establishment
 shall have the same meaning as the definition for the term in C.R.S. § 12-44-202,
 as amended.
High-fat-content meat
 shall mean any meat and/or the meat portion of any meat product having a precooked
 fat percentage equal to or greater than fifteen percent (15%) by weight according
 to established laboratory testing procedures as determined by the department, such
 meat and/or meat products including, without limitation, hamburger, chopped beef,
 ground beef, beef sausage, beef ribs, pork sausage, pork ribs and sausage made from
 any form of meat or combinations of meats.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.2; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 6; 
Ord. No. 5-1986
, § 2; 
Ord. No. 20-1988,
 § 1; 
Ord. No. 74-1992
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 47-1993
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 7-1999
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 40-2000
, § 1 (part))

===== Sec. 13.08.030. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 40-2000, § 1, repealed former § 13.08.030, pertaining to establishment of
 the Clean Air Advisory Board. Former § 13.08.030 was derived from Code 1971, § 11-2.3
 and Ord. No. 74-1992, § 1.

===== Sec. 13.08.040. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 40-2000, § 1, repealed former § 13.08.040, pertaining to composition and
 terms of the Clean Air Advisory Board. Former § 13.08.040 was derived from Code 1971,
 § 11-2.4 and Ord. No. 74-1992, § 1.

===== Sec. 13.08.050. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 40-2000, § 1, repealed former § 13.08.050, pertaining to powers and duties
 of the Clean Air Advisory Board. Former § 13.08.050 was derived from Code 1971, §
 11-2.5 and Ord. No. 74-1992, § 1.

===== Sec. 13.08.060. - Reserved.
Editor's note— 
 Ord. No. 40-2000, § 1, repealed former § 13.08.050, pertaining to powers and duties
 of the Clean Air Advisory Board. Former § 13.08.050 was derived from Code 1971, §
 11-2.6 and Ord. No. 74-1992, § 1.

===== Sec. 13.08.070. - Fireplaces and woodstoves.
(a)
 No person shall repair, alter, move, install or reinstall a solid fuel-burning device
 or gas log fireplace without having first obtained a building permit in accordance
 with 
Title 8
 of this Code.
 (b)
 No person shall replace a solid fuel burning device which is substantially destroyed,
 demolished or in need of replacement with another solid fuel burning device, unless
 the replacement is a Department certified device. Solid fuel burning devices lawfully
 existing and installed as of the date of enactment of this ordinance may be repaired
 to the extent that such repair, in the reasonable judgment of the Chief Building Inspector,
 is necessary to prevent the existence of an unsafe condition and that such repair
 will not affect the fire box.
 (c)
 No person shall install a solid-fuel-burning device in any building unless it is a
 Department certified device.
 (d)
 No person shall install more than two (2) Department certified devices in any single
 building.
 (e)
 Each new solid-fuel-burning device, gas log fireplace or gas appliance shall be registered
 with the department upon installation and prior to final approval of such installation
 by the Department. Such registration shall be obtained by submission of the stove
 and fireplace registration form provided by the department and upon payment of the
 fee prescribed by 
Title 2
 of this Code.
 (f)
 Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the contrary, any pre-existing wood
 burning fireplace which is destroyed or demolished by an act of God or through any
 manner not willfully accomplished by the owner may be restored as of right with a
 gas log fireplace; provided, however, that a building permit for reconstruction shall
 be issued within twelve (12) months of the date of the demolition or destruction.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.10; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 6; 
Ord. No. 5-1986
, § 3; 
Ord. No. 20-1988
, §§ 1—4; 
Ord. No. 38-1988
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 48-1988
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 54-1989
, §§ 1, 2; 
Ord. No. 74-1992
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 29-1993
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 7-1999
, § 2)

===== Sec. 13.08.080. - Coal burning prohibition.
No person shall burn coal in a solid-fuel-burning device.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.11; 
Ord. No. 74-1992,
 § 1; 
Ord. No. 7-1999
, § 3)

===== Sec. 13.08.090. - Non-owner occupied dwelling units.
No property owner shall rent a building if a fireplace or woodstove is the sole source
 of heat. Property owners and not tenants, shall be liable for any penalty imposed
 for a violation of this Section.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.12; 
Ord. No. 74-1992
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 7-1999
, § 4)

===== Sec. 13.08.100. - Restaurant grills.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate a restaurant
 grill in a commercial food service operation within the City in a manner not in compliance
 with this Section.
 (a)
 Charbroilers installed in food service establishments on or after January 1, 1993,
 shall install, operate and maintain a control device that reduces uncontrolled PM10
 emissions by at least ninety percent (90%), according to manufacturer specified removal
 efficiencies. This Subsection (a) shall not apply to the replacement of an existing
 charbroiler with a charbroiler having a cooking surface area that is less than or
 equal to the cooking surface of the charbroiler being replaced. Food service establishments
 with charbroilers that re-open for business after being closed for a period of six
 (6) months or more shall be subject to the provisions of this Subsection to the same
 extent as food service establishments that install charbroilers on or after January
 1, 1993. Control devices required by this Subsection (a) shall be maintained according
 to manufacturer's recommended guidelines. All owners and operators of food service
 establishments subject to the provisions of this Subsection (a) shall maintain records
 containing the control device's installation date, manufacturer's recommended guidelines
 and the actual maintenance performed on the control device.
 (b)
 Charbroilers installed in a food service establishment after April 25, 1983 but before
 January 1, 1993, shall not be used to cook high-fat-content meat unless an emission
 control device that reduces uncontrolled PM10 emissions by at least ninety percent
 (90%) according to manufacturer specified removal efficiencies is installed and thereafter
 operated in accordance with manufacturer's suggested guidelines or instructions. Owners
 and operators of food service establishments subject to the provisions of this Subsection
 (b) who claim to serve meat that is not high-fat-content shall allow the Department
 to enter upon the establishment at all times reasonable for the purpose of obtaining
 a sample of meats prepared on the charbroiler or to review and evaluate test data
 maintained by the establishment illustrating the fat-content levels of the meat prepared
 in such establishment.
 (c)
 Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary as contained hereinabove, food service
 establishments shall be exempt from the limitations as set forth in this 
Section 13.08.100
 above for up to four (4) days per year during a period commencing May 1 and ending
 October 30 so as to accommodate the utilization of outdoor charbroilers in food preparation.
 Such exemptions shall be subject to those rules and regulations as may be adopted
 from time to time by the City Manager to implement this Subsection.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.30; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 6; 
Ord. No. 74-1992
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 47-1993
, § 2)

===== Sec. 13.08.110. - Engine idling.
(a)
 Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to idle or permit
 the idling of the motor of any stationary motor vehicle for a prolonged or unreasonable
 period of time determined herein to be five (5) minutes or more within any one (1)
 hour period of time.
 (b)
 This Section shall not apply when an engine must be operated in the idle mode for
 safety reasons including, but not limited to, the operation of cranes and forklifts
 used in the construction industry.
 (c)
 The time required by a diesel-powered motor vehicle with a gross weight rating of
 ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more while operating in a stationary position to achieve
 a temperature of one hundred twenty (120) degrees Fahrenheit and an air pressure of
 one hundred (100) pounds per square inch, shall not be included in the computation
 of the five (5) minutes determined herein to be a prolonged or unreasonable period
 of time. The temperature and air pressure as indicated on the vehicle's gauges may
 be used for determining the diesel engine's temperature and air pressure.
 (d)
 The time during which transportation vehicles are actively loading or discharging
 passengers shall not be included in the computation of the five (5) minutes determined
 herein to be a prolonged or unreasonable period of time. A 
transportation vehicle
 shall be defined for purposes of this Section to mean motor vehicles designed to
 transport a minimum of sixteen (16) persons.
 (Code 1971, § 11-2.70; 
Ord. No 74-1992
, § 1)

===== Sec. 13.08.120. - Smoking Vehicles.
Editor's note— 
 See subsequent Sections 13.08.120.01—13.08.120.06 for provisions pertaining to smoking
 vehicles.
13.08.120.01 Applicability and Statement of Purpose.
 (a)
Applicability.
 This Chapter applies to diesel-powered motor vehicles having a gross vehicle weight
 rating of 14,001 or more pounds, which are considered heavy duty diesel vehicles (HDDV).
 (b)
Purpose.
 Aspen's Outdoor Air Quality program manages many air quality measures and develops
 new programs and projects that continue to protect our air quality with a changing
 climate. The Opacity Standard on HDDVs will improve Aspen's air quality by allowing
 for the local enforcement of a state Opacity Standard for HDDVs.
13.08.120.02 Definitions
.
Air Pollutant
 means any fume, smoke, particulate matter, vapor or gas or any combination thereof,
 but does not include water vapor or steam condensate.
Emission
 shall mean the discharge or release of one (1) or more Air Pollutants into the atmosphere.
Emit
 shall mean to discharge, release, or to permit or cause the discharge or release
 of one (1) or more Air Pollutants into the atmosphere.
Engine
 shall mean any internal combustion machine such as found in motor vehicles which
 utilize liquid fuel for combustion.(e) Heavy-duty diesel vehicle or HDDV means a diesel-powered
 Vehicle or bus with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR) of greater than fourteen
 thousand (14,000) pounds.
Opacity
 means the degree to which an air pollutant obscures the view of an observer expressed
 in percentage of obscuration, or the degree, expressed in percent, to which transmittance
 of light is reduced by the air pollutant.
Opacity Meter
 means an optical instrument which is designed to measure the Opacity of diesel exhaust.
 Opacity Meters to be utilized for the SAE J1667 test procedures must meet SAE J1667
 specifications.
Opacity Standard
 means any Air Pollutant which when Emitted is such a shade or density as to obscure
 an observer's vision to a degree in excess of forty percent (40%).
Owner
 shall mean the person or entity that holds or possesses title to any Vehicle or other
 means of transportation, conveyance or machine whose Engine is Emitting Air Pollutants
 as described herein.
Qualified Observer
 shall mean a person who is certified by Colorado Department of Public Health and
 Environment (CDPHE) in taking visual Opacity readings. Any person certified by the
 CDPHE after completion of a course in observing and grading visible Emissions in terms
 of Opacity is competent to express an opinion on degree of Opacity in any proceeding.
Roadside Inspection
 means the testing of a HDDV's Emission for Opacity in a manner that meets the requirements
 set forth by the SAE J1667 and established by Section 13.08.120.03.
SAE J1667
 means the Society of Automotive Engineers' J1667 Snap Acceleration Smoke Specifications
 and Test Procedures set out in 
J1667 Recommended Practice, Snap Acceleration Smoke Test Procedure for Heavy-Duty
 Diesel Powered Motor Vehicles
, © 1996 Society of Automotive Engineers Inc. (SAE), which document is hereby incorporated
 into this regulation by reference. The incorporation of the J1667 Recommended Practice
 into this Chapter by reference does not include later amendments to or editions of
 the material. To obtain a copy of the
J1667 Recommended Practices
 visit the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. website at www.sae.org.
Vehicle
 shall mean any on road mode of conveyance designed for highway speeds and delivers
 people or goods.
13.08.120.03 Testing and Roadside Inspection.
 (a)
 The Environmental Health & Sustainability Department shall develop a vehicle screening
 method, or methods, for conducting Roadside Inspections of HDDVs that operate within
 the City of Aspen. The purpose of such inspections shall be to determine whether such
 vehicles are in compliance with the Opacity Standard for HDDVs.
 (b)
 The Roadside Inspection of HDDVs shall be performed by a Qualified Observer at any
 location designated by the Environmental Health & Sustainability Director or any location
 acceptable to both the Qualified Observer and the HDDV Owner.
 (c)
 Qualified Observers. The Opacity test shall be administered by a Qualified Observer.
 (d)
 Enforcement by Qualified Observers. Enforcement of the Opacity Standard shall be by
 any code enforcement officer who is a Qualified Observer. As well, any such Qualified
 Observer may exercise discretion and issue a warning rather than a summons. Any warning
 so issued shall notify the individual of the nature of the violation and recommend
 that the cause of the violation be remedied as soon as possible. No other person may
 stop a HDDV for a violation of this Chapter, or make an arrest, or issue a summons
 and complaint for a violation of this Chapter, unless such person is so empowered
 by law.
13.08.120.04 Opacity Standard.
 (a)
Opacity Standard.
 HDDVs shall maintain an Emission Opacity level that is at or below forty percent
 (40%). A HDDV will pass the Opacity test if its smoke measurement is at or below the
 Opacity level of 40%.
 (b)
Responsible Party.
 Regardless of who is operating a HDDV at the time of violation of this Article, it
 is the legal responsibility of the Owner thereof to provide for compliance with the
 provisions of this Chapter. Any summons issued for violation of this Section shall
 likewise be issued to the Owner of the HDDV.
 (c)
Test Results.
 Drivers and Owners of HDDVs that undergo the Roadside Inspection shall be given a
 copy of their test results.
13.08.120.05 Violation and Penalty.
 (a)
Violation.
 (1)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to own a HDDV or allow to be operated an HDDV
 in the City of Aspen that Emits or causes to be Emitted any Air Pollutant in excess
 of the Opacity Standard.
 (2)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to cooperate or allow to be tested a HDDV
 during a roadside inspection.
 (b)
Penalty.
 A violation of this provision of this Chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and
 shall be subject to the penalty set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of the City Municipal Code, except as provided in 13.08.120.05(c) below. Each day
 a violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
 (c)
Minimum Fines.
 The minimum fine for a first offense violation shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00)
 with a mandatory court appearance.
 (d)
Authority.
 Authority is expressly provided to the judge of the municipal court to reduce or
 to suspend all or any part of fines in the event that the person charged with the
 violation provides proof to the court that the HDDV which Emitted the pollutant resulting
 in the violation has been repaired as provided in Section 13.08.120.06 hereof.
13.08.120.06 Repair of HDDV.
 (a)
Compliance Period.
 Any Owner who is given a ticket for a violation of this Chapter shall be provided
 the opportunity to either fix the HDDV or appear in municipal court on the regular
 court arraignment date next closest to the expiration of sixty (60) days thereafter
 to answer charges of the violation of this Chapter. Within the period prior to arraignment,
 the person summoned may either repair the HDDV to comply with the provisions of this
 Chapter; cease operating the HDDV within the City; or risk charges for additional
 violations of this Chapter.
 (b)
 If prior to the court appearance date, the HDDV which is the subject of the summons
 is repaired and found to be in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter after
 a test conducted by a Qualified Observer, the ticket will be dismissed by the Municipal
 Court upon proof of compliance without the need for the HDDV owner to appear. Such
 compliance shall be evidenced by an appropriate written document. The Qualified Observer
 who issued the ticket must present a compliance letter to the Court in order to obtain
 the dismissal.
 The Qualified Observer may, upon request, extend the compliance period for a period
 of not to exceed fifteen (15) days from the date of request. The court shall be notified
 of the extension.
 (
Ord No.27a-2016
)

===== Chapter 13.12. - RUBBISH, WEEDS AND BRUSH CONTROL


===== Sec. 13.12.010. - Removal of rubbish, weeds and brush required.
All rubbish and all weeds and brush which constitute a fire or health hazard shall
 be removed from all lots and tracts of land within the City and from the alleys behind
 and from the sidewalk areas in front thereof.
 (Code 1971, § 11-3.1; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 4)

===== Sec. 13.12.020. - Notice; removal by City and assessment of cost for failure to remove.
(a)
 In the event any landowner shall fail to remove any such rubbish or weeds and brush
 which constitute a fire or health hazard as provided herein, the City Manager or his
 or her authorized agent may give the record owner of such lot or parcel of land written
 notice of such condition and require the removal of such weeds, brush and rubbish
 within fifteen (15) days of the date of such notice. It shall be unlawful for any
 landowner to fail or refuse to comply with such notice.
 (b)
 If the owner of such property shall fail to remove the weeds, brush and rubbish within
 the period above provided, then the City may remove or have removed such weeds, brush
 and rubbish and shall thereupon charge the whole cost thereof, including inspection
 and other incidental costs in connection therewith, to the owner of such lots or parcels
 of land.
 (c)
 In the event that the owner or owners of the lot or lots or tracts of land against
 which any assessment hereunder shall be made, shall fail, refuse or neglect to pay
 the same within twenty (20) days from the date of notice of such assessment, then
 and in this event, the assessment shall be certified by the Director of Finance to
 the County Treasurer of the county to be by him placed upon the tax list for the current
 year and to be collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected together
 with a penalty added thereto to defray the costs of collection. All the laws of the
 state for the assessment and collection of general taxes, including the laws for the
 sale of property for taxes and the redemption thereof, shall apply to and have full
 effect for the collection of all such assessments.
 (Code 1971, § 11-3.2; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 4)

===== Sec. 13.12.030. - Notice in discretion of City Manager or his or her authorized agent.
The notices required by 
Section 13.12.020
 above to be given to remove weeds, brush and rubbish shall be given at the sole discretion
 of the City Manager or his or her authorized agent and a determination by him that
 such a notice should be given because of the condition of such lots or tracts of land
 shall be conclusive on the question of whether the condition of such lots or tracts
 of land are such as warrant such action.
 (Code 1971, § 11-3.3; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, §§ 4, 5)

===== Chapter 13.16. - CITY OF ASPEN CLEAN AIR ACT
Footnotes: 
 --- (
3
) ---
Editor's note—
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, adopted June 10, 2025, repealed the former Ch. 13.16, §§ 13.16.010—13.16.100,
 and enacted a new Ch. 13.16 as set out herein. The former Ch. 13.16 pertained to smoking
 in public places and derived from Code 1971, §§ 11-4.1—11-4.9, 11-5.1; 
Ord. No. 35-1985
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 44-1981
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 12-1983
, § 8; 
Ord. No. 35-1985
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 1-1996
, §§ 1—3; 
Ord. No. 12-1996
, §§ 9, 10; 
Ord. No, 32-2010
.

===== Sec. 13.16.010. - Short title.
This Chapter shall be known as and it may be cited as the "City of Aspen Clean Air
 Act."
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.020. - Purpose.
The intent of this Chapter is to protect health, safety and welfare by prohibiting
 smoking, vaping and the use of other tobacco products in designated public places,
 including outdoor and indoor public spaces, and places of employment.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.030. - Definitions.
The terms in this Chapter have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates
 otherwise.
Auditorium
 means the part of a public building where an audience gathers to attend a performance,
 and includes any corridors, hallways, or lobbies adjacent thereto.
Business
 means a sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or other business
 entity, either for profit or not-for-profit, including retail establishments where
 goods or services are sold; professional corporations and other entities where legal,
 medical, dental, engineering, architectural, or other professional services are delivered;
 and private clubs.
Cigar-tobacco bar
 means a bar as defined in C.R.S. § 25-14-203(4), that in the calendar year ending
 December 31, 2005, generated at least five percent (5%) or more of its total annual
 gross income or fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) in annual sales from the on-site
 sale of tobacco products and the rental of on-site humidors, not including any sales
 from vending machines. In any calendar year after December 31, 2005, a bar that fails
 to generate at least five percent (5%) of its total annual gross income or fifty thousand
 dollars ($50,000.00) in annual sales from the on-site sale of tobacco products and
 the rental of on-site humidors shall not be defined as a "cigar-tobacco bar" and shall
 not thereafter be included in the definition regardless of sales figures.
Electronic smoking device
 or 
ESD
:
 (a)
 Means any product, other than a product described in subsection (c) of this definition,
 that contains or delivers nicotine, or any other substance intended for human consumption
 and that can be used by a person to enable the inhalation of vapor or aerosol from
 the product;
 (b)
 Includes any product described in subsection (a) of this definition and any similar
 product or device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette,
 e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, or vape pen or under any other product name or descriptor;
 (c)
 Does not include a humidifier or similar device that emits only water vapor.
Employee
 means any person who:
 (a)
 Performs any type of work for benefit of another in consideration of direct or indirect
 wages or profit;
 (b)
 Provides uncompensated work or services to a business or nonprofit entity;
 (c)
 "Employee" includes every person described in paragraph (a) of this definition, regardless
 of whether such person is referred to as an employee, contractor, independent contractor,
 volunteer or by any other designation or title.
Employer
 means any person, partnership, association, corporation, business or nonprofit entity
 that employs one (1) or more persons. "Employer" includes, without limitation, the
 legislative, executive, and judicial branches of state government; any county, city
 and county, city, or town, or instrumentality thereof, or any other political subdivision
 of the state, special district, authority, commission, or agency; or any other separate
 corporate instrumentality or unit of state or local government.
Enclosed Area
 means closed in by a roof and four (4) walls with appropriate openings for ingress
 and egress and is not intended to mean areas commonly described as public lobbies.
Entryway
 means the outside of the front or main doorway leading into a building or facility
 that is not exempted from this Chapter. Entryway also includes the area of public
 or private property within twenty-five (25) feet of the doorway.
Indoor area
 means any enclosed area or portion thereof of a location open to the public. The
 opening of windows or doors, or the temporary removal of wall panels, does not convert
 an enclosed area into an unenclosed.
Marijuana
 shall have the same meaning as in Section 16(2)(f) of Article XVIII of the Colorado
 State Constitution.
Outdoor Dining Area
 means any publicly or privately owned unenclosed area, including streets and sidewalks,
 that is available to or customarily used by the general public or an employee, and
 that is designed, established, or regularly used for consuming food or drink.
Person
 means any natural person, partnership, cooperative association, corporation, personal
 representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other legal entity, including
 government agencies.
Place of employment
 means an area under the control of an employer where an employee or the general public
 may enter in the normal course of operations, regardless of the hours of operation,
 whether the area is enclosed or unenclosed including work areas and construction sites.
 A private residence is not a "place of employment" unless it is used as a childcare,
 adult day care, or health care facility.
Private Club
 means an organization, whether incorporated or not, where the owner, lessee, or occupant
 of a building or portion thereof is used exclusively for club purposes at all times,
 which is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
 benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells
 alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. The affairs and management of the
 organization are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar
 body chosen by the members at an annual meeting.
 The organization has established bylaws and/or a constitution to govern its activities.
 The organization has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income
 tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. Section 501.
Public building
 means any building owned or operated by:
 (a)
 The state, including the legislative, executive, and judicial branches of state government;
 (b)
 Any county, city and county, city, or town, or instrumentality thereof, or any other
 political subdivision of the state, a special district, an authority, a commission,
 or an agency; or
 (c)
 Any other separate corporate instrumentality or unit of state or local government.
Public Event
 means an event which is open to and may be attended by the general public, including
 but not limited to, such events as concerts, fairs, farmers' markets, festivals, parades,
 performances, and other exhibitions, regardless of any fee or age requirement.
Public place
 means any publicly or privately-owned place that is open to the general public, regardless
 of any fee or age requirement, including, but not limited to, auditoriums, theaters,
 entryways, elevators, plazas, public buildings, public events, public restrooms, shopping
 areas.
Reasonable Distance
 means a distance of twenty-five (25) feet from an entryway where smoking is prohibited.
Secondhand smoke
 means the complex mixture formed from the escaping smoke of a burning tobacco product,
 also known as "sidestream smoke," and smoke exhaled by the smoker.
Service area
 means any publicly or privately owned area, including streets and sidewalks, that
 is designed to be used or is regularly used by one (1) or more persons to receive
 a service, wait to receive a service, or to make a transaction, whether or not such
 service or transaction includes the exchange of money. The term "service area" includes,
 but is not limited to, areas including or within twenty-five (25) feet of information
 kiosks, automatic teller machines (ATMs), service lines, bus stops or shelters, or
 cab stands.
Smoke
 means the gases, particles, or vapors released into the air as a result of combustion,
 electrical ignition, or vaporization, when the apparent or usual purpose of the combustion,
 electrical ignition, or vaporization is human inhalation of the byproducts, except
 when the combusting or vaporizing material contains no tobacco or nicotine and the
 purpose of inhalation is solely olfactory, such as, for example, smoke from incense.
 The term smoke includes, but is not limited to, tobacco smoke, vapors from an electronic
 device, and marijuana smoke.
Smoking
 means inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette,
 or pipe or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation,
 including marijuana, whether natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form. Smoking
 also includes the use of an Electronic Smoking Device (ESD).
Tobacco
 means cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, and periques; granulated, plug cut,
 crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff and snuff flour; cavendish;
 plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco; shorts, refuse scraps,
 clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco,
 prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing or for smoking in a cigarette,
 pipe, or otherwise, or both for chewing and smoking. Tobacco also includes cloves
 and any other plant matter or product that is packaged for smoking.
Tobacco product
 means:
 (a)
 Any product that is made from or derived from tobacco, or that contains nicotine,
 that is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether inhaled,
 absorbed, or ingested by any other means, including but not limited to, a cigarette,
 a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus;
 (b)
 Any electronic smoking device and any substances that may be aerosolized or vaporized
 by such device, whether or not the substance contains nicotine; or
 (c)
 Any component, part, or accessory of subsection (1) or (2) of this definition, whether
 or not any of these contains tobacco or nicotine, including but not limited to filters,
 rolling papers, blunt or hemp wraps, hookahs, mouthpieces, and pipes.
Unenclosed area
 means any area that is not an enclosed area.
Work area
 means an area in a place of employment where one (1) or more employees are routinely
 assigned and perform services for or on behalf of their employer.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.040. - Prohibition of smoking and tobacco product use in enclosed areas.
Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products is prohibited in the Enclosed Areas of the
 following places within the City of Aspen:
 (a)
 Places of Employment; and
 (b)
 Public Places.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.050. - Prohibition of smoking and tobacco product use in unenclosed areas.
(a)
 Smoking and the use of Tobacco Products is prohibited in the following Unenclosed
 Areas within the City:
 (1)
 Service Areas; and
 (2)
 Outdoor Dining Areas; and
 (3)
 Places of Employment; and
 (4)
 Any outdoor areas of City owned property which has been designated as a non-smoking
 area. Such area shall be clearly marked with appropriate no smoking signage; and
 (5)
 Other Public Places, when being used for a public event including, but not limited
 to, a farmers' market, parade, craft fair, festival, or any other event open to the
 general public.
 (b)
 Nothing in this Chapter prohibits any Person, Employer, or nonprofit entity with legal
 control over any property from prohibiting Smoking and Tobacco Product use on any
 part of such property, even if Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products is not otherwise
 prohibited in that area.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.060. - Reasonable smoking distance required.
(a)
 Smoking in Unenclosed Areas shall be prohibited within a Reasonable Distance of twenty-five
 (25) feet from any entryway into an Enclosed Area where Smoking is prohibited.
 (b)
 Smoking in Unenclosed Areas shall be prohibited within a Reasonable Distance of twenty-five
 (25) feet from any Unenclosed Areas in which Smoking is prohibited by this Chapter.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.070. - Other requirements and prohibitions.
(a)
 No Person, Employer, or nonprofit entity shall knowingly permit Smoking or the use
 of Tobacco Products in an area which is under the legal or de facto control of that
 Person, Employer, or Nonprofit Entity and in which Smoking, or the use of Tobacco
 Products is prohibited by law.
 (b)
 No Person, Employer, or nonprofit entity shall knowingly or intentionally permit the
 presence or placement of ash receptacles, such as ashtrays or ash cans, within an
 area under the legal or de facto control of that Person, Employer, or nonprofit entity
 and in which Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products is prohibited by law, including,
 without limitation, within a Reasonable Distance required by this Chapter from any
 area in which Smoking, or the use of Tobacco Products is prohibited. Notwithstanding
 the foregoing, the presence of ash receptacles in violation of this subsection shall
 not be a defense to a charge of Smoking or the use of Tobacco Products in violation
 of any provision of this Chapter.
 (c)
 No Person, Employer, or nonprofit entity shall intimidate, threaten any reprisal,
 or effect any reprisal, for the purpose of retaliating against another Person who
 seeks to attain compliance with this Chapter.
 (d)
 Each instance of Smoking or Tobacco Product use in violation of this Chapter shall
 constitute a separate violation. For violations other than for Smoking, each day of
 a continuing violation of this Chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.080. - Exceptions.
(a)
 Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted
 to restrict or otherwise regulate the use of a drug, device, or combination product.
 (b)
 Authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration, as those terms
 are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
 (c)
 Cigar-tobacco bar.
 (d)
 Retail Marijuana Hospitality and Sales Business pursuant to C.R.S. § 44-10-610.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.090. - Enforcement.
(a)
 The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall be responsible for compliance
 with this Chapter with regard to facilities which are owned, operated or leased by
 the City.
 (b)
 Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this Chapter may initiate enforcement
 with the City Manager or City Manager's designee.
 (c)
 The City Manager or the City Manager's designee may enforce the provisions of this
 Chapter by either of the following actions:
 (1)
 Servicing notice requiring correction of any violation of this Chapter.
 (2)
 Requesting the City Attorney to initiate appropriate enforcement proceedings, including,
 without limitation, the initiation of a complaint in Municipal Court or the institution
 of injunctive, abatement or other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate or
 remove such violation.
 (d)
 Any person convicted of violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction,
 be punished by a fine, up to the maximum amount allowed in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code, for each separate offense and may be enjoined from any further or continued
 violation thereof. Each day any violation of this Chapter shall continue shall constitute
 a separate offense.
 (e)
 Any remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive and shall be
 in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Sec. 13.16.100. - Penalties and relief.
(a)
 Any person, upon conviction of a violation of any provision of this Title, shall be
 subject to a fine, imprisonment or both a fine and imprisonment, as set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code, for each separate offense and may be enjoined from any further or continued
 violation hereof. A violation of 
Chapter 13.16
 shall be punishable by a fine only. Each day any violation of this Title shall continue,
 shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
 (b)
 In addition to the penalties and relief provided for in Subsection (a) above, any
 person found in violation of any provision of 
Sections 13.04.010
 to 
13.04.100
 of this Title shall reimburse the City for any expenses incurred in preventing pollution
 of the municipal water supplies caused by said person, any expenses incurred in restoring
 municipal water supplies to the standards set forth in 
Section 13.04.020
 or any expenses incurred in improving any intake, treatment facility or other part
 of the water works, which improvement is necessitated by the violation found hereunder.
 (
Ord. No. 04-2025
, § 1, 6-10-2025)

===== Chapter 13.20. - TREE REMOVAL PERMITS


===== Sec. 13.20.010. - Legislative intent and purposes.
The City Council finds that trees provide important environmental, aesthetic and health
 benefits to the residents and guests of the City which extend beyond the boundaries
 of the property upon which trees may grow. The City Council further finds that trees
 enhance the real estate values of property upon which trees grow and neighboring properties.
 Large trees are a resource which cannot be fully replaced if injured, damaged or removed.
 Property development and construction activities can result in injury or loss of valuable
 trees in the City. It is the intent of this Chapter to preserve to the fullest extent
 possible existing trees considered desirable by the Manager of Parks and Recreation
 or his or her designee as hereinafter set forth.
 (
Ord. 34-1995,
 § 3)

===== Sec. 13.20.020. - Removal of trees; permit required; valuation.
(a)
Applicability of Section and definition.
 The terms and provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all private and public real
 property situated in or subsequently annexed to the corporate limits of the City.
 The term 
tree
 shall include, for purposes of this Chapter, all deciduous trees having a trunk diameter
 at breast height (DBH) of six (6) inches or more, 
Querus gambelli
 (Gamble Oak), 
Acer glabrum
 (Rocky Mountain Maple), 
Amelanchier spp.
 (Serviceberry) and 
Prunus Virginiana
 (Chokecherry) with a trunk diameter of three (3) inches or more and coniferous trees
 having a trunk diameter of four (4) inches or more. Trunk diameters (DBH) shall be
 measured in inches measured as close to four and one-half (4½) feet above ground as
 possible.
 (b)
Removal or damage to trees prohibited without permit.
 (1)
 It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit as herein provided,
 to remove or cause to be removed any tree.
 (2)
 It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit for tree removal
 as herein provided, to dig, excavate, turn, compact or till the soil within the critical
 root zone (CRZ) of any tree in such a manner as to cause material damage to the root
 system of the tree. For purposes of this Subsection, the critical root zone (CRZ)
 of a tree is a cylinder extending from grade level down to a depth of ten (10) feet
 below grade, having a radius in feet equal to the diameter at breast height (DBH)
 of the tree in inches, with the center of the cylinder located at the center of the
 trunk of the tree.
 (3)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place machinery, automobiles or structures;
 or to pile, store or place, soil, excavated material, fill or any other matter within
 the critical root zone (CRZ) of any tree. During construction of any structure or
 other improvements, the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee may require
 the erection of suitable barriers around all trees, including trees not included in
 the definition set forth at Subsection (a) above, to be preserved. These protection
 areas will be established on site in order to protect existing natural resources when
 appropriate. Roots must be protected from exposure to the elements with burlap or
 other suitable materials and these materials must remain moist during the extent of
 the project. In addition, during construction, no attachments or wires other than
 protective guy wires shall be attached to any tree.
 (4)
 Where construction of structures or improvements on any property necessitates the
 removal or relocation of any trees, the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her
 designee, may, as a condition for the approval of the removal or relocation, require
 that the owner replace any removed or relocated trees with a tree or trees of comparable
 value on the affected property. When in the opinion of the Parks and Recreation Director
 or his or her designee, replacement of removed or relocated trees cannot reasonably
 be accommodated on the affected property; the applicant shall pay a cash-in-lieu amount
 equal to the comparable value of the aggregate of all trees removed as determined
 pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(e), below.
 (5)
 It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit for tree removal
 as herein provided, to intentionally top, damage, girdle, limb up or poison any healthy
 tree. For purposes of this Section, 
topping
 a tree is the removal of more than five percent (5%) of the height from the top of
 any deciduous tree or the removal of the terminal bud from a coniferous tree. The
 terminal bud of a coniferous tree is the highest bud on the tree.
 (6)
 It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining a permit as herein provided,
 to relocate any tree. If a relocated tree dies within two (2) years of relocation
 and is not replaced with a tree of equal value, the death of the relocated tree shall
 be deemed an unpermitted tree removal. This Section shall not apply to the initial
 planting of trees obtained from nursery stock.
 (7)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to provide the Parks and Recreation Director
 or his or her designee, with written notice, delivered at least four (4) working days
 in advance, of the time and date on which removal of any tree will occur. Written
 notice pursuant to this Section is required even if a permit for tree removal, as
 herein provided, has been obtained.
 (8)
 In the event a tree poses a hazard to the public or harbors pests which may spread
 to other trees the City may give a written notice of abatement to the tree's owner.
 After the expiration of the notice the City may correct the hazard or condition caused
 by the tree, and the owner of the trees will be liable for any costs associated with
 the abatement work.
 (9)
 Each violation of the above Subsections (b)(1—7) shall be a separate offense.
 (c)
Penalty.
 Any person convicted of violating any provision of 
Chapter 13.20
 shall be subject to punishment as set forth in 
Section 1.04.080
 of this Code.
 (d)
Tree removal permits.
 (1)
 Any person wishing to obtain a permit or relocate a tree shall file an appropriate
 application with the Parks and Open Space department. Such application shall contain
 such information as the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee, shall
 require to allow adequate enforcement of this Section.
 (2)
 On request of the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee and when necessary
 to adequately apprise the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee, of
 the intended tree removal, said application shall include a site plan showing the
 following:
 a.
 Location of proposed driveways and other planned areas or structures on said site;
 b.
 Location of all trees four (4) inches or over identified by trunk diameter and species;
 three (3) inches or over for native species;
 c.
 Designation of all diseased trees and any trees endangering any roadway pavement or
 structures and trees endangering utility service lines;
 d.
 Designation of any trees proposed to be removed, retained and relocated and areas
 which will remain undisturbed;
 e.
 Any proposed grade changes on the site;
 f.
 Location of all site improvements including subsurface improvements such as utilities,
 irrigation infrastructure or foundation work.
 (3)
 After filing said application, the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee,
 shall review the application (and site plan if required) and determine what effect
 the intended removal or relocation of trees will have on the natural and historic
 resources of the area. Based on a review of the following factors, the Parks and Recreation
 Director shall either grant or deny the requested permit:
 a.
 Whether the trees intended for removal or relocation are necessary to minimize flood,
 wildfire, snowslide or landslide hazards;
 b.
 Whether retention of the trees is necessary to prevent excess water runoff or otherwise
 protect the watershed;
 c.
 Whether the removal or relocation of the trees will cause wind erosion or otherwise
 adversely affect air quality;
 d.
 The condition of the trees with respect to disease, danger of falling and interference
 with utility lines;
 e.
 The number and types of trees in the neighborhood, the contribution of the trees to
 the natural beauty of the area and the effect of removal or relocation on property
 values in the area;
 f.
 The necessity or lack thereof, to remove the trees to allow reasonable economic use
 and enjoyment of the property;
 g.
 The implementation of good forestry practices, including consideration of the number
 of healthy trees that the parcel of land in question can support;
 h.
 The adequacy of the methods proposed to be used to relocate any trees; and
 i.
 The impact of any tree on a historically designated property or adjacent right-of-way
 by considering the following matters:
 1.
 In cases where a tree is jeopardizing the physical integrity of a historically designated
 structure through contact with the building, heaving due to roots or shading that
 results in decay, deterioration or structural defect, this shall be justification
 for the issuance of a tree removal permit exempt from mitigation pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(d). Examples of unacceptable impacts to a historically designated structure include:
 deterioration of exterior walls, foundations or other vertical supports; deterioration
 of flooring or floor supports or other horizontal members; deterioration of external
 chimneys; deterioration or crumbling of exterior plasters or mortars; ineffective
 waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs and foundations; the inability to retain paint
 on exterior surfaces; or excessive weathering of exterior surfaces. The applicant
 for a tree removal permit shall be required to submit proof of the damage that is
 occurring in the form of a written evaluation from a third party with expertise in
 structural engineering or a relevant building trade. The Parks and Recreation Director
 may suggest means to prevent the tree from causing further damage short of its removal
 if these actions would meaningfully reverse the problem.
 2.
 In cases where, per the advice of the Historic Preservation Commission, a tree detracts
 from the integrity of a landscape which has been historically designated for its own
 merits, this shall be justification for the issuance of a tree removal permit exempt
 from mitigation pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(d).
 3.
 In cases where the visibility of the street facing facades of a historically designated
 structure are impacted by an evergreen tree which is not located in the City right-of-way,
 to the extent that the public enjoyment of the resource is seriously diminished per
 the advice of the Historic Preservation Commission, this shall be justification for
 the issuance of a tree removal permit exempt from mitigation pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(d). The Parks and Recreation Director may consider whether the tree in question has
 a unique character to offset the negative impact to the structure. This character
 may include an unusual or unique species or specimen tree quality. The Parks and Recreation
 Director may suggest means to prevent the tree from obstructing the resource, short
 of its removal, if these actions would meaningfully reverse the problem.
 4.
 In cases where, per the advice of the Historic Preservation Commission, a tree is
 inconsistent with established historic landscape patterns in the area or landscape
 practices associated with the period of significance of the property or district,
 the removal or relocation of the tree should be considered, subject to mitigation
 pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(d). The Parks and Recreation Director may consider whether the tree in question has
 a unique character to offset the negative impact to the structure. This character
 may include an unusual or unique species or specimen tree quality.
 5.
 In cases where, per the advice of the Historic Preservation Commission, the protection
 of a tree conflicts with the redevelopment of a historically designated property in
 a manner that is consistent with the "City of Aspen Historic Preservation Design Guidelines,"
 the Parks and Recreation Director shall consult with the Historic Preservation Commission
 to consider the feasibility of all options including removal or relocation of the
 tree or redesign of the development. Unless the tree is an unusual or unique species
 or specimen tree quality, flexibility shall be allowed for its removal or relocation
 in favor of the best preservation option for the historic structure, subject to mitigation
 pursuant to 
Section 13.20.020
(d).
 (4)
 Where construction of structures or improvements on any property necessitates the
 removal or relocation of any trees, the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her
 designee, may, as a condition for the approval of the removal or relocation, require
 that the owner replace any removed or relocated trees with a tree or trees of comparable
 value on the affected property. When in the opinion of the Parks and Recreation Director
 or his or her designee, replacement of relocated trees cannot reasonably be accommodated
 on the affected property; the applicant shall pay a cash-in-lieu amount equal to the
 comparable value of the aggregate of all trees removed. 
Comparable value
 for purposes of this Section shall mean a tree or trees of equal aggregate value
 and species to the replacement cost of the tree to be removed or relocated.
 (5)
 Where wildfire risk is identified as a basis for a removal permit for either removal
 or relocation of any trees, the Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee,
 shall either grant or deny the requested permit based upon criteria identified in
 the 
Wildfire Mitigation Policy.
 a.
 As a condition of approval of the removal or relocation, the Parks and Recreation
 Director may require that the owner replace any removed or relocated tree with a tree
 or shrub designated as a fire-resistant species. The Parks and Open Space Department
 shall maintain a list of suitable fire-resistant tree and plant species and make that
 list available to the public via its website or at the office of the department.
 b.
 When a fire-resistant species is planted to mitigate the value of the removed tree,
 the value of the fire-resistant plant shall be multiplied by a variable to be established
 in the 
Wildfire Mitigation Policy
 to incentivize replanting landscapes with fire resistant plants, instead of vegetation
 removal and cash-in-lieu payments.
 c.
 When in the opinion of the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee, replacement
 of removed tree with a fire-resistant plant cannot reasonably be accommodated on the
 affected property; the applicant shall pay a cash-in-lieu amount set forth in the
Wildfire Mitigation Policy.
 d.
 Pursuant to the powers and authority conferred by the Charter of the City, there is
 hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth the procedures
 and policies contained in he 
Wildfire Mitigation Policy.
 The 
Wildfire Mitigation
 Policy will set forth the criteria and factors to be considered when determining
 whether wildfire risks necessitate tree removal or relocation, the methodologies and
 fee waivers that are granted for the purposes of reducing wildfire risk related to
 vegetation on a property. The 
Wildfire Mitigation Policy
 may be amended, updated, and expanded from time to time by City Council Resolution.
 At least one copy of the 
Wildfire Mitigation Policy
 shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the Parks and Open Space
 Department.
 (6)
 No trees shall be removed from City property except in accordance with 
Chapter 21.20
 of this Code.
 (7)
 The removal of dead trees shall require prior notice to the Parks and Recreation Director
 or his or her designee and a permit from the City.
 (8)
 In case of an emergency caused by a tree being in a hazardous or dangerous condition
 posing an immediate threat-to person or property, such tree may be removed without
 resort to the procedures herein described; provided, however, that evidence of such
 an emergency is provided to the Parks and Recreation Director or his or her designee,
 within twenty-four (24) hours.
 (9)
 After obtaining a permit as herein provided the responsible party must post the permit
 in such a manner that it is clearly visible from curbside of the property.
 (e)
Valuation of trees.
 When, in accordance with this Section, the value of a tree must be determined, the
 Basic Value shall be $X per square inch of the cross­ sectional area of the tree at
 the point where the diameter of the tree is measured. In calculating the Basic Value,
 the following equation shall be used:
 Basic Value = $Xxπx (D/2)
 2
 Where: D = the diameter of the tree in inches, measured at 4.5 feet from the ground.
 X = the $(dollar) value assigned in the Tree Fees - Mitigation Fee in 
Section 2.12.080
.
 (
Ord. No. 34-1995
, § 3; 
Ord. No. 19-2004
 § 1; 
Ord. No. 16-2016
 § 2; Ord. No. 
11-2024
, 7-23-2024)

===== Sec. 13.20.030. - Fees.
The applicable administrative fees for tree removal permits and permits to landscape
 in the public right-of-way shall be as established in 
Section 2.12.080
, Parks Department fees, where a 
'Standalone tree removal permit'
 is a request unrelated to construction activities and a 
'Development Tree Removal Permit'
 is a request where construction of a structure or improvements on any property necessitates
 the removal or relocation of any trees.
 (
Ord. No. 19-2004
, § 1; 
Ord. No. 16-2016
, § 3; Ord. No. 
11-2024
, 7-23-2024)

===== Sec. 13.20.040. - Appeals.
Any person not satisfied with the action taken by the Parks and Recreation Director
 or his or her designee or any other City staff person regarding an application pursuant
 to this Chapter shall have the right to take successive appeals, first to the City
 Manager and then to the City Council. An appeal to the City Manager shall be taken
 by filing with the City Clerk a signed statement that the applicant desires to appeal
 to the City Manager, along with a copy of the application and the written denial or
 the permit objected to. An appeal of a decision by the City Manager to the City Council
 shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk copies of the application, denial or
 permit and the written decision issued by the City Manager, along with a signed statement
 that the applicant desires to appeal to the City Council. Each appeal shall be filed
 within two (2) days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, of the decision
 appealed from. An informal summary hearing shall precede a decision by either the
 City Manager or City Council, and advance notice of the hearing shall be provided
 to the applicant and the City official whose decision is being appealed as soon as
 is practicable. The right to appeal an adverse decision by the City Manager to City
 Council shall be contingent upon City Council's regular meeting schedule. If the applicant's
 appeal cannot be heard by the City Council within ninety (90) days of the original
 decision then the City Manager's decision shall be final.
 (
Ord. No. 19-2004
, § 1; Ord. No. 
11-2024
, 7-23-2024)

===== Chapter 13.24. - WASTE REDUCTION


===== Sec. 13.24.010. - Definitions.
Section 13.24.010
 shall be amended to include the definitions set forth in the Plastic Pollution Reduction
 Act, Colo. Rev. Stat. Section 25-17-503, as it may be amended from time to time.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.020. - Prohibitions.
On and after the effective date:
 (a)
 No Grocer shall provide a Disposable Plastic Bag to a customer at the point of sale.
 (b)
 Nothing in this Section shall preclude persons or Grocers from making Reusable Bags
 available for sale or for no cost to customers.

===== Sec. 13.24.030. - Paper Bag fee requirements.
(a)
 Grocers shall collect from customers, and customers shall pay, at the time of purchase,
 a fee of twenty cents ($0.20) for each Disposable Paper Bag provided to the customer.
 (b)
 Grocers shall record the number of Disposable Paper Bags provided and the total amount
 of fee charged on the customer transaction receipt.
 (c)
 A Grocer shall not refund to the customer any part of the waste reduction fee, nor
 shall the grocer advertise or state to customers that any part of the waste reduction
 fee will be refunded to the customer.
 (d)
 A Grocer shall not exempt any customer from any part of the waste reduction fee for
 any reason except as stated in 
Section 13.24.070
.

===== Sec. 13.24.040. - Voluntary Opt In.
(a)
 Any store or business with a City of Aspen business license may voluntarily opt in
 to the Waste Reduction Program and apply the ban and waste reduction fee to its business
 by applying with the City of Aspen Environmental Health Department.

===== Sec. 13.24.050. - Retention, remittance, and transfer of the Waste Reduction fee.
(a)
 A Grocer may retain twenty-five percent (25%) of each waste reduction fee collected
 up to a maximum amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per month within the first
 twelve (12) months of the effective date of this ordinance and one hundred dollars
 ($100.00) per month for all months thereafter.
 (b)
 The retained percent is limited to allowable use for the Grocer to:
 (1)
 Provide educational information about the Waste Reduction Fee to customers;
 (2)
 Train staff in the implementation and administration of the fee; and
 (3)
 Improve or alter infrastructure to allow for the implementation, collection and administration
 of the fee.
 (c)
 The fees retained by a Grocer pursuant to this ordinance shall not be classified as
 revenue for the purposes of calculating sales tax;
 (d)
 The remaining amount of each fee collected by a Grocer shall be paid to the City of
 Aspen Finance Department and shall be deposited in the Waste Reduction and Recycling
 Account.
 (e)
 A Grocer shall pay and the City of Aspen shall collect this fee at the same time as
 the City Sales Tax. The City shall provide the necessary forms for Grocers to file
 individual returns with the City, separate from the required City Sales Tax forms,
 to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of the fee.
 (1)
 If payment of any amounts to the City is not received on or before the applicable
 due date, penalty and interest charges shall be added to the amount due as described
 in 
Section 13.24.080
.
 (f)
 The Waste Reduction Fee shall be administered by the City of Aspen Environmental Health
 Department.
 (g)
 Funds deposited in the Waste Reduction and Recycling Account shall be used for the
 following projects, in the following order of priorities:
 (1)
 Campaigns conducted by the City of Aspen and begun within three hundred sixty-five
 (365) days of the effective date of this act, to:
 a.
 Provide reusable carryout bags to residents and visitors; and
 b.
 Educate residents, businesses, and visitors about the impact of trash on the City's
 environmental health, the importance of reducing the number of disposable carryout
 bags entering the waste stream, and the impact of disposable carryout bags on the
 waterways and the environment.
 (2)
 Ongoing campaigns conducted by the City of Aspen to:
 a.
 Provide reusable bags to both residents and visitors; and
 b.
 Create public educational campaigns to raise awareness about waste reduction and recycling;
 c.
 Funding programs and infrastructure that allows the Aspen community to reduce waste
 and recycle.
 d.
 Purchasing and installing equipment designed to minimize trash pollution, including,
 recycling containers, and waste receptacles;
 e.
 Funding community cleanup events and other activities that reduce trash;
 f.
 Maintaining a public website that educates residents on the progress of waste reduction
 efforts; and
 g.
 Paying for the administration of this program.
 (h)
 The Fees shall not be used to supplant funds appropriated as part of an approved annual
 budget.
 (i)
 No Waste Reduction Fee shall revert to the General Fund at the end of the fiscal year,
 or at any other time, but shall be continually available for the uses and purposes
 set forth in Subsection (g) of this Section without regard to fiscal year limitation.

===== Sec. 13.24.060. - Required Signage for Grocers.
Every Grocer subject to the collection of the fee shall display a sign in a location
 outside or inside of the business, viewable by customers, alerting customers to the
 City of Aspen imposed ban and fee.

===== Sec. 13.24.070. - Exemptions.
A Grocer may provide a Disposable Paper Bag to a customer at no charge to that customer
 if the customer is a participant in a Colorado Food Assistance Program.

===== Sec. 13.24.080. - Audits and Violations.
(a)
 Each Grocer licensed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall maintain accurate
 and complete records of the fees collected, the number of Disposable Paper Bags provided
 to customers, the form and recipients of any notice required pursuant to this Chapter,
 and any underlying records, including any books, accounts, invoices, or other records
 necessary to verify the accuracy and completeness of such records. It shall be the
 duty of each Grocer to keep and preserve all such documents and records, including
 any electronic information, for a period of three (3) years from the end of the calendar
 year of such records.
 (b)
 If requested, each Grocer shall make its records available for audit by the City Manager
 during regular business hours in order for the City to verify compliance with the
 provisions of this Chapter. All such information shall be treated as confidential
 commercial documents.
 (c)
 Violation of any of the requirements of this act shall subject a Grocer to the penalties
 set forth in this Section.
 (1)
 If it is determined that a violation has occurred, the City of Aspen shall issue a
 warning notice to the Grocer for the initial violation.
 (2)
 If it is determined that an additional violation of this Chapter has occurred within
 one (1) year after a warning notice has been issued for an initial violation, the
 City of Aspen shall issue a notice of infraction and shall impose a penalty against
 the retail establishment.
 (3)
 The penalty for each violation that occurs after the issuance of the warning notice
 shall be no more than:
 a.
 Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense.
 b.
 One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense.
 c.
 For the third and all subsequent offenses there shall be a mandatory Court appearance
 and such penalty as may be determined by the Court pursuant to 
Section 1.04.080
.
 (4)
 No more than one (1) penalty shall be imposed upon a Grocer within a seven (7) calendar
 day period.
 (5)
 A Grocer shall have fifteen (15) calendar days after the date that a notice of infraction
 is issued to pay the penalty.
 (6)
 The penalty shall double after fifteen (15) calendars days if the Grocer does not
 pay the penalty; or fails to respond to a notice of infraction by either denying or
 objecting in writing to the infraction or penalty.
 (d)
 If payment of any amounts of the Waste Reduction Fee to the City is not received on
 or before the applicable due date, penalty and interest charges shall be added to
 the amount due in the amount of:
 (1)
 A penalty of five percent (5%) of total due, not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) each
 month.
 (2)
 Interest charge of one percent (1%) of total penalty per month.

===== Sec. 13.24.090. - Repeal of Ordinance 24, Series of 2011.
(a)
 Prior to May 1, 2023, the City shall retain its prohibitions on disposable plastic
 bags applicable to grocers established by Ordinance 24, Series of 2011 and set forth
 in 
Sections 13.24.020
 through 
13.24.080
 of the City of Aspen Municipal Code.
 (b)
 Ordinance 24, Series of 2011 shall be repealed effective May 1, 2023.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.100. - Single-use plastic carryout bag prohibition.
(a)
 Subject to 
Section 13.24.110
, on and after January 1, 2024, a store or retail food establishment shall not provide
 a single-use plastic carryout bag to a customer, except that a retail food establishment
 need not comply with this Section if the retail food establishment:
 (1)
 Prepares or serves food in individual portions for immediate on or off-premises consumption;
 and
 (2)
 Is not a grocery store or convenience store.
 (b)
 Subject to the carryout bag fee applied to single-use plastic carryout bags in 
Section 13.24.110
, a store or retail food establishment may provide a single-use plastic carryout bag
 to a customer on or before June 1, 2024, if the single-use plastic carryout bag was
 part of the store's or retail food establishment's inventory before January 1, 2024.
 (c)
 This Subsection (b) is repealed effective September 1, 2024.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.110. - Carryout bag fee—Disposition of money.
(a)
 (1)
 On and after May 1, 2023, and before January 1, 2024, a store may provide a customer
 with one (1) or more recycled paper carryout bags or single-use plastic carryout bags
 at the point of sale only if the customer pays a carryout bag fee of twenty cents
 ($0.20) per recycled paper carryout bag or single-use plastic carryout bag. For each
 carryout bag or single-use plastic carryout bag fee collected pursuant to this Section,
 the shore shall:
 a.
 Remit, in accordance with Subsection (c)(4) of this Section, sixty percent (60%) of
 the first ten cents ($0.10) and the remainder of the fee to the City which shall use
 the remitted fee to pay:
 1.
 Administrative and enforcement costs incurred as a result of this Section.
 2.
 Costs associated with any recycling, composting, or other waste diversion programs
 and related outreach and education activities, and
 b.
 Retain forty percent (40%) of the first ten cents ($0.10) of the fee, which portion
 of the fee does not count as revenue for the purpose of calculating sales tax.
 c.
 The carryout bag fee set forth in Subsection (a)(1) of this Section does not apply
 to a customer that provides evidence to the store that the customer is participating
 in a federal or state food assistance program.
 (2)
 This Subsection (a) is repealed, effective September 1, 2024.
 (b)
 (1)
 On and after January 1, 2024, a store may provide a customer with one or more recycled
 paper carry out bags at the point of sale only if the customer pays a carryout bag
 fee of twenty cents ($.20) per recycled paper carryout bag. For each carryout bag
 fee collected pursuant to this section, the store shall:
 a.
 Remit, in accordance with subsection (3)(d) of this section, sixty percent (60%) of
 the first ten cents ($.10) and the remainder of the fee to the City which shall use
 the remitted fee to pay:
 1.
 Administrative and enforcement costs incurred as a result of this section; and
 2.
 Costs associated with any recycling, composting, or other waste diversion programs
 and related outreach and education activities.
 b.
 Retain forty percent (40%) of the first ten cents ($0.10) of the fee, which portion
 of the fee does not count as revenue for the purpose of calculating sales tax.
 (2)
 The carryout bag fee set forth in Subsection (a)(1) of this Section does not apply
 to a customer that provides evidence to the store that the customer is participating
 in a federal or state food assistance program.
 (3)
 a.
 Beginning January 1, 2024 and ending June 1, 2024, a store may provide a customer
 with a single-use plastic carryout bag at the point of sale for the carryout bag fee
 described in Subsection (b)(1) of this Section only if the single-use plastic carryout
 bag is within the store's remaining inventory pursuant to 
Section 13.24.100
(b)(1). The store shall remit the fee collected pursuant to this Subsection pursuant
 to Subsection (b)(1) of this Section.
 b.
 This Subsection (b)(3) is repealed effective July 1, 2024.
 (c)
 In providing carryout bags for a fee pursuant to this Section a store shall:
 (1)
 For each customer provide on the customer's transaction receipt a record of the number
 of carryout bags provided as part of the transaction and the total amount of fees
 charged for the carryout bags provided, itemized by type of carryout bag;
 (2)
 Not refund to the customer any portion of the carryout bag fee, either directly or
 indirectly, or advertise or otherwise convey to customers that any portion of the
 carryout bag fee will be refunded;
 (3)
 Conspicuously display a sign in a location inside or outside the store, which sign
 alerts customers about the carryout hag fee; and
 (4)
 On a quarterly basis starting April 1, 2024, remit from the total amount of carryout
 bag fees collected in the previous quarter the amount that is owed to the City's finance
 department. A store need not remit carryout bag fees collected in any quarter in which
 the collected fees total less than twenty dollars ($20.00). The store shall retain
 those collected fees until the store has more than twenty dollars ($20.00) worth of
 collected fees to remit and shall remit those fees as part of the next quarterly remittance.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023; Ord. No. 
17-2023
, § 1, 11-28-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.120. - Prohibitions on use of expanded polystyrene food containers.
(a)
 Except as provided in Subsection (b) of this Section, effective January 1, 2024, a
 retail food establishment shall not distribute an expanded polystyrene product for
 use as a container for ready-to-eat food.
 (b)
 If a retail food establishment purchased expanded polystyrene products before January
 1, 2024, the retail food establishment may distribute any remaining inventory of the
 expanded polystyrene products then purchased for use as containers for ready-to-eat
 food until the inventory is depleted.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.130. - Voluntary opt-in.
Any store or business with a City of Aspen Business license may voluntarily opt into
 the provisions of this Chapter and apply the ban and carryout bag fee to its business
 by applying with the City of Aspen Environmental Health Department.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.140. - Audits.
(a)
 Each Store shall maintain accurate and complete records of the carryout bag fees collected,
 the number of single use plastic carryout bags and recycled carryout bags provided
 to customers, the form and recipients of any notice required pursuant to this Chapter,
 and any underlying records, including any books, accounts, or invoices, or other records
 necessary to verify the accuracy and completeness of such records. It shall be the
 duty of each grocer, store, and retail food establishment to keep and preserve all
 such documents and records, including any electronic information for a period of three
 (3) years from the end of the calendar year of such records.
 (b)
 If requested, each store, and retail food establishment shall make its records available
 for audit by the City Manager or designee during regular business hours in order for
 the City to verify compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. All such information
 shall be treated as confidential commercial documents.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.150. - Enforcement—Possible penalties.
(a)
 Violations of any of this Chapter shall subject a store and retail food establishment
 to the penalties set forth herein:
 (1)
 If it is determined that a violation has occurred, the City shall issue a wanting
 notice to the store or retail food establishment for the initial violation.
 (2)
 If it is determined that an additional violation of this chapter has occurred within
 one (1) year after a warning notice has been issued for an initial violation, the
 City shall issue a penalty assessment against the violator. The penalty shall not
 exceed:
 a.
 One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first violation after written warning.
 b.
 Two-hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second violation after written warning.
 c.
 Three-hundred dollars ($300.00) for the third violation in the same calendar year
 as the first and second violation.
 d.
 All subsequent violations shall require a mandatory court appearance by the violator,
 and such penalty as may be determined by the Court pursuant to 
Section 1.04.080
.
 (3)
 No more than one (1) penalty assessment shall be issued upon the same violator within
 a seven (7) day period.
 (4)
 If a payment of any amounts of the carryout bag fee to the City is not received on
 or before the applicable due date, penalty and interest charges shall be added to
 the amount due in the amount of:
 a.
 A penalty of five percent (5%) of total due, not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) each
 month.
 b.
 Interest charge of one percent (1%) of total penalty per month.
 (b)
 The City may seek injunctive relief to enforce a violation of this Chapter against
 a store or retail food establishment.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Sec. 13.24.160. - Exemptions.
(a)
 Nothing in this Chapter prohibits or limits the use of any material used in the packaging
 of a product that is regulated as a drug, medical device, or dietary supplement by
 the food and drug administration in the United Statement Department of Health and
 Human Services under the "Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act," 21 U.S.C. Sec. 321
 et seq., as amended, or any equipment and materials used to manufacture such products.
 (b)
 Retail food establishments located within a school shall be exempt from the provisions
 of this Chapter.
 (
Ord. No. 06-2023
, § 1, 3-14-2023)

===== Chapter 13.25. - Licensing of Tobacco Retailers


===== Sec. 13.25.010. - Incorporation of general licensing provisions.
The provisions of 
Chapter 14.04
 City of Aspen Municipal Code (Licenses and Permits General Provisions)and 
Section 1.04.110
 (Double Fee for Failure to Obtain Required Licenses), shall apply to this Chapter
 except where they are specifically modified by the provisions of this Chapter.

===== Sec. 13.25.020. - Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply throughout this Chapter:
Cigarette 
means any product that contains tobacco or nicotine, that is intended to be burned
 or heated under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains:
 (a)
 Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco;
 (b)
 Tobacco in any form that is functional in the product, which, because of its appearance,
 the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging or labeling, is likely to
 be offered to, or purchased by consumers as a cigarette; or
 (c)
 Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco that, because of its
 appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling,
 is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described in
 [the definition] above.
 (d)
 The term includes all "roll-your-own," i.e., any tobacco that, because of its appearance,
 type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or
 purchased by consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes.
Department
 means the City of Aspen Environmental Health Department, and any agency or person
 designated by the City Manager to enforce or administer the provisions of this Chapter.
Electronic Smoking Device
 means an electronic device that, when activated, emits a vapor, aerosol, fume or
 smoke that may be inhaled or absorbed by the user, including, but not limited to,
 an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape pen, e-hookah and similar devices. Electronic
 smoking device includes any component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether
 or not sold separately, and includes any substance, with or without nicotine, intended
 to be aerosolized, vaporized or produces a fume or smoke during the use of the device
 intended for human consumption.
License
 refers to the Tobacco Product Retailer license.
Licensee
 means the owner or holder of a Tobacco Product Retailer License.
Licensing Administrator
 means the person(s) within the City government designated with responsibilities by
 the City Manager for license issuance, renewal and collection of fees.
Minimum Legal Sales Age
 means twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
Mobile Vending
 means any sales other than at a fixed location.
Self-Service Display
 means the open display or storage of Tobacco Products in a manner that is physically
 accessible in any way to the general public without the assistance of the retailer
 or employee of the retailer and a direct person-to-person transfer between the purchaser
 and the retailer or employee of the retailer. A vending machine is a form of self-service
 display.
Tobacco Paraphernalia
 means any item designed for the consumption, use or preparation of Tobacco Products.
Tobacco Product
 means 1) any product which contains, is made or derived from tobacco or used to deliver
 nicotine or other substances intended for human consumption, whether heated, chewed,
 absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means, including,
 but not limited to Cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
 snuff, bidis, snus, mints, hand gels; and 2) electronic smoking device; 3) notwithstanding
 any provision of Subsections 1) and 2) to the contrary, "tobacco product" includes
 any component, part, accessory or associated tobacco paraphernalia of a tobacco product
 whether or not sold separately. 4) The term "Tobacco Product" does not include: (i)
 any product that contains marijuana; and (ii) any product made from or derived from
 tobacco and approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in connection
 with cessation of smoking.
Tobacco Product Retail Location
 or 
Retail Location
 means any premises where Tobacco Products are sold or distributed to a consumer including,
 but not limited to, hookah bar, lounge or café, any grounds occupied by a retailer,
 any store, stand, outlet, vehicle, cart, location, vending machine or structure where
 Tobacco Products are sold.
Tobacco Product Retailer
 means any Person who sells, offers for sale, or does or offers to exchange for any
 form of consideration, Tobacco or Nicotine Products, or Tobacco Paraphernalia. "Tobacco
 Retailing" shall mean the doing of any of these things. This definition is without
 regard to the quantity of Tobacco Products or Tobacco Paraphernalia sold, offered
 for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange.
Tobacco Product Retailing
 means the selling, offering for sale, or exchanging for any form of consideration
 a Tobacco Product.
Vending machine
 shall mean any mechanical, electrical, or electronic self-service device which, upon
 insertion of money, tokens, or any other form of payment, dispenses product.

===== Sec. 13.25.030. - Minimum Legal Sales Age.
Tobacco Products shall not be sold to any person under the Minimum Legal Sales Age.

===== Sec. 13.25.040. - License requirements and prohibitions.
(a)
Tobacco Product Retailer License required.
 (1)
 It shall be unlawful for any person to act as a Tobacco Product Retailer in the City
 unless he or she has obtained a License and maintains the same in full force and effect
 pursuant to this Chapter for each location where Tobacco Product Retailing occurs.
 (2)
 No license may be issued to authorize Tobacco Product retailing anywhere other than
 at a fixed location that is designated in the License application and approved by
 the Licensing Administrator. Tobacco Product Retailing by a persons on foot, from
 vehicles or through Mobile Vending is prohibited.
 (3)
 Tobacco Retailing without a valid License is a nuisance as a matter of law.
 (b)
Display of License.
 Each License shall be prominently displayed in a publicly visible location at the
 licensed Tobacco Product Retail Location.
 (c)
Display of Minimum Legal Sales Age Requirements.
 The requirement of the Minimum Legal Sale Age for the purchase of Tobacco Retail
 Product shall be prominently displayed in the entrance (or other clearly visible location)
 of the Tobacco Product Retail Location.
 (d)
Other Prohibitions.
 (1)
 A Tobacco Product Retail Location may only have one (1) active License at one (1)
 time. Every License is separate and distinct and specific to a designated location.
 The License cannot be assigned, delegated, sold, inherited or otherwise transferred
 between persons or transferred to a different location, except as provided in this
 Chapter. No Licensee shall exercise the privileges of any other License or delegate
 the privileges of its own License.
 (2)
 A person or entity may not apply for a License for a one (1) year period after a License
 has been revoked.
 (3)
 No License shall be issued to any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.

===== Sec. 13.25.050. - Conditions of the Tobacco Product Retail License.
The following conditions shall apply to the Licensee:
 (a)
Minimum age for persons handling Tobacco Products.
 No Person who is younger than the minimum age established by the City to purchase
 and possess the Tobacco Products shall, while employed at a Tobacco Product Retail
 Location, sell, stock, retrieve, or otherwise handle Tobacco Products.
 (b)
Prohibition of self-service displays.
 Licensees shall stock and display all Tobacco Products in a manner so as to make
 all such products inaccessible to customers without the assistance of a retail clerk,
 thereby requiring a direct face-to-face exchange of the Tobacco Product from an employee
 of the business to the customer.
 (c)
Requirements of positive identification.
 No person engaged in Tobacco Product retailing shall sell or transfer a Tobacco Product
 to another person who appears to be under the age of thirty (30) years without first
 examining the identification of the recipient to confirm that the recipient is at
 least twenty-one (21) years of age.
 (d)
No Licenses shall be issued within five hundred (500) feet of schools.
 No Licenses will be issued to retailers located within five hundred (500) feet from
 schools or youth populated areas (community specific locations, playgrounds, parks
 etc.), as determined by the Licensing Administrator. This restriction shall not apply
 to an existing Retail Location within five hundred (500) feet of a youth populated
 area.

===== Sec. 13.25.060. - Application procedure.
(a)
 An application for a License shall be submitted and signed by an individual authorized
 by the person or entity making application for the License. It is the responsibility
 of each applicant and/or Licensee to be informed regarding all laws applicable to
 tobacco retailing, including those laws affecting the issuance of said License. No
 applicant and/or Licensee may rely on the issuance of a License as a determination
 by the City that the proprietor has complied with all applicable tobacco retailing
 laws.
 (b)
 All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Licensing Administrator.
 (c)
 A licensed Tobacco Product Retailer shall inform the Licensing Administrator in writing
 of any change in the information submitted on an application for a License within
 thirty (30) business days of a change.
 (d)
 All License applications shall be accompanied by the payment in full of all fees as
 required in this Chapter.

===== Sec. 13.25.070. - Issuance of a Tobacco Product License.
Upon the receipt of a completed application for a License as required by this Chapter,
 the Licensing Administrator shall sign and issue a License within thirty (30) days
 which period may be extended by the Licensing Administrator for good cause unless
 substantial evidence demonstrates that one (1) or more of the following bases for
 denial exists:
 (a)
 The information presented in the application is incomplete, inaccurate or false;
 (b)
 The applicant seeks authorization for a License at a location where this Chapter prohibits
 the issuance of a License;
 (c)
 The applicant seeks a License for a location that is not appropriately zoned for the
 use;
 (d)
 The applicant seeks authorization for a License and the applicant's current License
 is suspended or revoked;
 (e)
 The applicant is not qualified to hold the requested License under the provisions
 of this Chapter; or
 (f)
 The applicant and/or retail location is not in compliance with all City, state or
 federal laws;
 (g)
 The applicant is indebted to, or obligated in any manner to the City for unpaid taxes,
 liens or other monies; or
 (h)
 The payment of the licensing fee in the full amount chargeable for such License does
 not accompany such License application.

===== Sec. 13.25.080. - Denial of Tobacco Product License.
(a)
 If the Licensing Administrator denies the issuance of the License, the Licensing Administrator
 shall notify the applicant in writing by regular mail postage prepaid on the address
 shown in the application. The notice shall include the grounds for denial. Notice
 is deemed to have been properly given upon mailing.
 (c)
 An applicant has the right to appeal the Licensing Administrator's denial of an application
 to the "Hearing Officer" that shall be appointed by the City Manager. Such an appeal
 shall be initiated by filing a written request with the Licensing Administrator within
 twenty (20) days of the date of the notice of denial of the issuance of a License.
 (d)
 The applicant's failure to timely appeal the decision of the Licensing Administrator
 is a waiver of the applicant's right to contest the denial of the issuance of the
 License.
 (e)
 The appeal, including any right to further appeals, shall be conducted and controlled
 by the provisions of Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. The
 standard of proof at such appeal shall be a preponderance of the evidence and the
 burden of proof shall be upon the applicant. The Licensee's failure to timely appeal
 the decision is a waiver of the Licensee's right to contest the suspension or revocation
 of the License.

===== Sec. 13.25.090. - License term, renewal and expiration.
(a)
Term.
 All Licenses issued under this Code shall be for the period of one (1) year or a
 fraction thereof and shall expire on the last day of December of each calendar year
 unless otherwise specifically provided.
 (b)
Renewal of License.
 A Licensee shall apply for the renewal of the License and submit the renewal License
 fee no later than thirty (30) days prior to expiration of the existing term. The Licensing
 Administrator shall renew the License prior to the end of the term, provided that
 the renewal application and fee were timely submitted and the Licensing Administrator
 is not aware of any fact that would have prevented issuance of the original License
 or issuance of the renewal.
 (c)
Expiration of License.
 A License that is not timely renewed shall expire at the end of its term. The failure
 to timely obtain a renewal of a License requires submission of a new application.
 There shall be no sale of any Tobacco Products after the License expiration date and
 before the new License is issued.

===== Sec. 13.25.100. - License non-transferable.
(a)
 A License shall not be transferred from one (1) person to another or from one (1)
 location to another.
 (b)
 When a License has been issued to a husband and wife, or to general or limited partners,
 the death of a spouse or partner shall not require the surviving spouse or partner
 to obtain a new License for the remainder of the term of that License. All rights
 and privileges granted under the original License shall continue in full force and
 effect as to such survivors for the balance of the term of the License.

===== Sec. 13.25.110. - Fee for License.
(a)
 The annual fee for original issuance of a License for applications filed in 2018 shall
 be five hundred dollars ($500.00). The fee to issue or to renew a License may be changed
 from time to time by resolution of the City Council. The fee shall be calculated so
 as to recover the direct and indirect costs of administration and enforcement of this
 Chapter, including, for example, issuing a License, administering the License program,
 retailer education and training, retailer inspection, compliance checks, community
 outreach and education, documentation of violations, and prosecution of violators,
 but shall not exceed the cost of the regulatory program authorized by this Chapter.
 Fees are nonrefundable except as may be required by law. In addition, from time to
 time, as deemed appropriate by License Administrator, the License may be increased
 in accordance with Article X Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution.
 (b)
 All fees and interest from proceeds of License fees under this Chapter shall be deposited
 in a separate cash account established by the City. These funds are to be used exclusively
 to defray the costs of the local licensing program.
 (c)
 As part of the annual budget process, the amount of fees charged by the City pursuant
 to this Section shall be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted to reflect the direct
 and indirect costs incurred by the City in connection with the adoption, administration
 and enforcement of this Chapter.
 (d)
 Beginning with the fiscal 2018 budget, the amount of the fees charged by the City
 pursuant to this Section shall be fixed by City Council as part of its annual budget
 process. If, for any reason, such fees are not fixed by City Council as part of its
 annual budget process, the fees for the preceding year shall continue to in full force
 and effect until changed by City Council.

===== Sec. 13.25.120. - Compliance monitoring.
(a)
 Compliance monitoring of this Chapter shall be by the Department, as the Department
 (or its designee) deems appropriate.
 (b)
 The Department shall have discretion to consider previous compliance check history
 or prior violations of a Licensee in determining how frequently to conduct compliance
 checks of the Licensee with respect to individual Licensees.
 (c)
 The Department shall inspect each Tobacco Product Retailer at least two (2) times
 per twelve (12) month period. Nothing in this paragraph shall create a right of action
 in any Licensee or other Person against the City or its agents.
 (d)
 Compliance checks shall be conducted as the Department deems appropriate so as to
 allow the Department to determine, at a minimum, if the Tobacco Product Retailer is
 conducting business in a manner that complies with laws regulating access to Tobacco
 Products. When the Department deems appropriate, the compliance checks shall determine
 compliance with other laws applicable to Tobacco Products.

===== Sec. 13.25.130. - Suspension or Revocation of License.
(a)
 The following shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of the Licensee's License:
 (1)
 A violation by a Licensee or Licensee's officers, agents, or employees of any of the
 provisions of this Chapter, or any laws of the United States, the State of Colorado
 or ordinances of the City relating to the sale or furnishing of tobacco or Cigarettes
 to minors, or the storage or display of Cigarettes or tobacco products.
 (2)
 Violations of any conditions imposed by the Licensing Administrator or Hearing Officer
 in connection with the issuance or renewal of a License.
 (3)
 Failure to pay State or local taxes that are related to the operation of the business
 associated with the License.
 (4)
 Loss of right to possession of the licensed premises.
 (5)
 Fraud, misrepresentation, or a false statement of material fact contained in the original
 or renewal license application;
 (b)
 The City Manager shall appoint a Hearing Officer to hear all actions relating to the
 suspension or revocation of Licenses pursuant to this Chapter. The Hearing Officer
 shall have the authority to suspend, revoke, or impose remedial sanctions for violations.
 (c)
 The Licensing Administrator shall commence suspension or revocation proceedings by
 petitioning the Hearings Officer to issue an order to the Licensee to show cause why
 the Licensee's License(s) should not be suspended or revoked. The Hearing Officer
 shall issue such an order to show cause if the petition demonstrates that probable
 cause exists to determine that one or more grounds exist pursuant to Subsection (a)
 to suspend or revoke the Licensee's License. The order to show cause shall set the
 matter for a public hearing before the Hearing Officer.
 (d)
 Notice of the order to show cause order and hearing date shall be mailed to Licensee
 by regular mail, postage prepaid, at the address shown on the License no later than
 thirty (30) days prior to the hearing date. Notice is deemed to have been properly
 given upon mailing.
 (e)
 The notice to show cause hearing and any subsequent right to appeal shall be conducted
 and controlled by the provisions of Rule 106(a)(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil
 Procedure. The standard of proof at such hearings shall be a preponderance of the
 evidence and the burden of proof shall be upon the Licensing Administrator and/or
 Department.
 (f)
 In determining whether a License should be suspended or revoked, and in determining
 whether to impose conditions in the event of a suspension, the Hearing Officer shall
 consider the following factors:
 (1)
 The nature and circumstances of the violation;
 (2)
 Corrective action, if any taken by the Licensee;
 (3)
 Prior violations, if any by the Licensee;
 (4)
 The likelihood of recurrence of the violation;
 (5)
 Whether the violation was willful; and
 (6)
 Previous sanctions, if any, imposed on the Licensee.

===== Sec. 13.25.140. - Penalties and fines.
(a)
Licensees penalties and fines.
 In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, and if the Hearing Officer determines
 based on a preponderance of the evidence, that the Licensee, or any of the Licensee's
 agents or employees, has violated any of the requirements, conditions, or prohibitions
 of this Chapter, or has pleaded guilty, "no contest" or its equivalent, or admitted
 to a violation of any law relating to the sale of tobacco to minors including but
 not limited to C.R.S. §§ 18-13-121 and 24-35-503, the Hearing Officer may consider
 the following non-binding guidelines in determining the sanctions to be imposed upon
 a Licensee as follows:
 (1)
 One (1) violation within thirty-six (36) months: a civil penalty of five hundred dollars
 ($500.00) and/or suspension of the License for three (3) days.
 (2)
 Two (2) violations within thirty-six (36) months: a civil penalty of one thousand
 dollars ($1,000.00) and suspension of the License for seven (7) days.
 (3)
 Three (3) violations within thirty-six (36) months: a civil penalty of one thousand
 five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) and a minimum twenty (20) days suspension of the
 License.
 (4)
 Four (4) violations within thirty-six (36) months: a civil penalty of two thousand
 dollars ($2,000.00) and revocation of License.
 The actual sanction imposed upon a Licensee for any violation may vary from the above-stated
 guidelines when warranted by the specific facts and circumstances of the case.
 (b)
 After the effective date of this ordinance, it shall be unlawful for any Tobacco Product
 Retailer to sell a Tobacco Product without a License as mandated under this Chapter,
 or with a suspended or revoked License. In addition, the Hearing Officer may impose
 civil penalties of up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each separate
 Tobacco Product sold during the period of non-compliance with this Chapter. A retailer
 whose License has been suspended or revoked 1) shall not display Tobacco Products
 in public view during the timeframe in which the License is suspended or revoked;
 and 2) advertisements relating to Tobacco Products that promote the sale or distribution
 of such products from the location that could lead a reasonable person to believe
 that such products can be obtained from that location shall not be displayed.

===== Sec. 13.25.150. - Enforcement.
(a)
 The remedies provided by this Chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other
 remedies available at law or in equity. In addition to other remedies provided by
 this Chapter or by other law, any violation of this Chapter may be remedied by a civil
 action brought by the City Attorney, including but not limited to nuisance abatement
 proceedings and injunctive relief.
 (b)
 Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, or concealing a violation of any provision
 of this Chapter shall cause the offender to be subject to the penalties set forth
 herein or in the Aspen Municipal Code.

===== Sec. 13.25.160. - No Rights in License.
Every License issued under this Chapter confers only a limited and conditional privilege
 subject to the requirements, conditions, limitations and qualifications of this Chapter.
 The License does not confer a property right of any kind. The License and privilege
 created by the License may be further regulated, limited or completely extinguished
 at the discretion of City Council or the electorate of the City, as provided in this
 Chapter, without any compensation to the Licensee. Nothing contained in this Chapter
 grants to any Licensee any vested right to continue operating under the provisions
 of this Chapter as they existed at the time the License was approved or issued, and
 every License shall be subject to any ordinance or prohibition adopted after the License
 was approved or issued.

===== Sec. 13.25.170. - Effective Date.
This Chapter shall become effective as of January 1, 2018 and enforceable on and after
 that date. Any Tobacco Product Retailer without a License after the effective date
 will be in violation of this Chapter.
 (Ord. No. 24, 2011; 
Ord. No 17, 2017
)

===== Chapter 13.26. - Restrictions on the Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products, Including Menthol, in Tobacco Product Retail Establishments


===== Sec. 13.26.010. - Reserved.


===== Sec. 13.26.020. - Definitions.
Characterizing Flavor
 means a distinguishable taste or aroma or both, other than the taste or aroma of
 tobacco, imparted either prior to or during consumption of a Tobacco Product or any
 byproduct produced by the Tobacco Product. Characterizing flavors include, but are
 not limited to, tastes or aromas relating to any fruit, chocolate, vanilla, honey,
 candy, cocoa, dessert, alcoholic beverage, menthol, mint, wintergreen, herb, spice;
 provided, however, that a Tobacco Product shall not be determined to have a characterizing
 flavor solely because of the use of additives or flavorings or the provision of ingredient
 information. Rather, it is the presence of a distinguishable taste or aroma or both,
 as described in the first sentence of this definition that constitutes a characterizing
 flavor.
Cigar
 means any roll of tobacco other than a cigarette wrapped entirely or in part in tobacco
 or any other substance containing tobacco. For purposes of this Chapter, cigar includes,
 but is not limited to tobacco products known or labeled as "cigar," "cigarillo," or
 "little cigar."
Cigarette
 means any product that contains tobacco or nicotine that is intended to be burned
 or heated under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains:
 (a)
 Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco;
 (b)
 Tobacco in any form that is functional in the product, which, because of its appearance,
 the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging or labeling, is likely to
 be offered to, or purchased by Consumers as a cigarette; or
 (c)
 Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco that, because of its
 appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling,
 is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, Consumers as a cigarette described above.
 (d)
 The term includes all "roll-your-own," i.e., any tobacco that, because of its appearance,
 type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or
 purchased by consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes.
Constituent
 means any ingredient, substance, chemical, or compound other than tobacco, water,
 or reconstituted tobacco sheet that is added by the manufacturer to a Tobacco Product
 during the processing, manufacture, or packing of a Tobacco Product.
Consumer
 means an individual who purchases a Tobacco Product or Tobacco Paraphernalia for
 consumption and not for sale to another.
Distinguishable
 means perceivable by either the sense of smell or taste.
Electronic Smoking Device
 means any product containing or delivering nicotine intended for human consumption
 that can be used by an individual to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine
 or any other substance, even if marketed as nicotine-free, through inhalation from
 the product. Electronic smoking device includes any refill, cartridge or component
 part of a product, whether or not marketed or sold separately. Electronic smoking
 device does not include any product that has been approved or certified by the United
 States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product or for
 other medically approved or certified purposes.
Establishment
 means any store, stand, booth, concession or any other enterprise that sells, offers
 for sale, or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, Tobacco Products
 or Tobacco Paraphernalia including, but not limited to any retail location, stand,
 outlet, vehicle, cart, vending machine, structure or any grounds where Tobacco Products
 and/or Tobacco Paraphernalia are sold or offered for exchange.
Flavored Tobacco Product
 means any Tobacco Product, including cigarettes, that contains a constituent or that
 imparts a characterizing flavor.
Ingredient
 means any substance, chemical or compound, other than tobacco, water or reconstituted
 tobacco sheet that is added by the manufacturer to a tobacco product during the processing,
 manufacture or packing of the Tobacco Product.
Labeling
 means written, printed, pictorial, or graphic matter upon any Tobacco Product or
 any of its packaging.
License
 means a Tobacco Product Retail License.
Manufacturer
 means a person, including any repacker or relabeler, who manufacturers, fabricates,
 assembles, processes, or labels a Tobacco Product; or imports a finished Tobacco Product
 for sale or distribution into the United States.
Packaging
 means a pack, box, carton, or container of any kind or, if no other container, any
 wrapping (including cellophane) in which a Tobacco Product(s) is sold or offered for
 sale to a consumer.
Person
 in this Chapter means any natural person, partnership, cooperative association, corporation,
 limited liability company, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee or
 other legal entity.
Sale or Sell
 means any transfer, exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, or distribution for a
 commercial purpose, in any manner, for any form of consideration or by any means whatsoever.
Tobacco Paraphernalia
 means any item designed for the consumption, use, or preparation of Tobacco Products.
Tobacco Product
 means:
 (a)
 Any product which contains, is made or derived from tobacco or used to deliver nicotine,
 synthetic nicotine or other substances intended for human consumption, whether heated,
 chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means,
 including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco,
 pipe tobacco, snuff, bidis, snus, mints, hand gels; and
 (b)
 An Electronic Smoking Device;
 (c)
 Notwithstanding any provision of Subsections (1) and 2) above to the contrary, "Tobacco
 Product" includes any component, part, accessory or associated Tobacco Paraphernalia
 of a Tobacco Product whether or not sold separately.
 (d)
 The term "Tobacco Product" does not include:
 (1)
 Any product that contains marijuana; and
 (2)
 Any product made from or derived from tobacco and approved by the Food and Drug Administration
 (FDA) for use in connection with cessation of smoking.
Tobacco Product Retailer
 means any person who engages in the Sale of Tobacco Products and or Flavored Tobacco
 Products directly to the public from any store, stand, booth, concession, outlet,
 vehicle, cart, vending machine, structure or any grounds or any other enterprise that
 sells, offers for sale, or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration.
Tobacco Product Retailing
 means the act of selling, offering for sale or exchanging or offering to exchange
 for any form of consideration, Tobacco Products and or Flavored Tobacco Products.
 (Ord. No. 
14A-2019
, § 1, 5-13-2019)

===== Sec. 13.26.030. - Sale or Distribution of Flavored Tobacco Products Prohibited.
(a)
 The sale or distribution by a Tobacco Product Retailer of a Flavored Tobacco Product(s)
 is prohibited.
 (b)
 A Tobacco Product Retailer, or any of the Tobacco Product Retailer's agents, or employees
 shall not sell, offer for sale or possess with the intent to sell a Flavored Tobacco
 Product(s).
 (c)
 There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a Tobacco Product is presumed to be a
 Flavored Tobacco Product if a manufacturer or any of the manufacturer's agents or
 employees, in the course of their agency or employment, has made a statement or claim
 directed to consumers or to the public that the Tobacco Product has or produces a
 characterizing flavor, including, but not limited to, text, color; and/or images on
 the product's labeling or packaging that are used to explicitly or implicitly communicate
 that the Tobacco Product has a characterizing flavor.
 (d)
 There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a Tobacco Product Retailer in possession
 of four (4) or more Flavored Tobacco Products, including but not limited to individual
 Flavored Tobacco Products, packages of Flavored Tobacco Products, or any combination
 thereof, possesses such Flavored Tobacco Products with the intent to sell or offer
 said products for sale.
 (Ord. No. 
14A-2019
, § 1, 5-13-2019)

===== Sec. 13.26.040. - Compliance Monitoring.
(a)
 Enforcement of this Chapter shall be monitored by the local police department and
 the City of Aspen Environmental Health Department.
 (b)
 All Tobacco Product Retailers shall be subject to a compliance check for adherence
 to the provisions of this Chapter at least twice a year with violators being checked
 more frequently until two (2) consecutive checks are completed without a violation.
 (Ord. No. 
14A-2019
, § 1, 5-13-2019)

===== Sec. 13.26.050. - Violations, Penalties and Fines.
(a)
Licensee penalties and fines.
 In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, if the City of Aspen Municipal
 Court determines based on the evidence, that a Tobacco Product Retail Licensee, or
 any of the Licensee's agents or employees, has violated any of the requirements, conditions,
 or prohibitions of this Chapter, or has pleaded guilty, "no contest" or its equivalent,
 or admitted to a violation of any law related to the Sale of Flavored Tobacco Products
 the following penalties shall be imposed on the Licensee:
 (1)
 Upon the first violation, a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
 (2)
 Upon the second violation within thirty-six (36) months, a penalty of one thousand
 five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
 (3)
 Upon the third violation within thirty-six (36) months, court appearance shall be
 mandatory, and the Court may issue a penalty of up to the maximum amount allow by
 law or imprisonment for a period of up to one (1) year or both such fine and imprisonment
 at the discretion of the court.
 (4)
 Each day of violation constitutes a separate offense.
 (b)
Suspension or revocation of Tobacco Product Retail License.
 In addition to the penalties set forth about, the City of Aspen may suspend or revoke
 a Tobacco Product Retailer license issued pursuant to 
Chapter 13.25
, pursuant to the terms set forth in such 
Chapter 13.25
. A Tobacco Product Retailer whose license has been suspended or revoked pursuant
 to 
Chapter 13.25
:
 (1)
 Shall not display Flavored Tobacco Products in public view during the time when the
 license is suspended or revoked; and
 (2)
 Advertisements related to Flavored Tobacco Products that promote the sale or distribution
 of said products from the location that could lead a reasonable person to believe
 that such products can be obtained from the location shall not be displayed.
 (c)
Remedies cumulative.
 Remedies provided by this Chapter are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies
 available at law or in equity. In addition to the remedies provided by this Chapter
 or by any other law, any violation of this Chapter may be remedied by a civil action,
 brought by the City Attorney including, but not limited to injunctive relief.
 (d)
[Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing.]
 Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing a violation of any provision
 of this Chapter shall cause the offender to be subject to the penalties set forth
 herein or in the Aspen Municipal Code.
 (Ord. No. 
14A-2019
, § 1, 5-13-2019)

===== Sec. 13.26.060. - Reserved.


===== Sec. 13.26.070. - No Conflict With Federal or State Law.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any requirement,
 power, or duty that is preempted by federal or state law.
 (Ord. No. 
14A-2019
, § 1, 5-13-2019)
