# CITY OF ASPEN MUNICIPAL CODE — TITLE 27 - CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS
# Source: Municode (api.municode.com), Supp. No. 7 Update 1, codified through Ord. No. 06-2026 (enacted 2026-03-24)
# Retrieved: 2026-07-22


===== TITLE 27 -       CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEMS      
Footnotes: 
 --- (
1
) ---
Cross reference— 
 Streets, sidewalks, other public property, Title 21.

===== Chapter 27.04. - GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE REVOCABLE PERMITS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS


===== Sec. 27.04.010. - Title of Title.
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the "Aspen Cable Television System Ordinance."
 (Code 1971, § 25-1; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.020. - Definitions.
For the purpose of this Title, certain words or phrases are defined as follows:
 When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
 future; words in the singular number include the plural; words in the plural number
 include the singular; and the masculine includes the feminine. The word "shall" is
 mandatory; the word "may" is permissive; words not defined shall be given their common
 and ordinary meaning.
Additional subscriber services
 (or additional service). Any communication service, other than basic service provided
 by a permittee to its subscribers, directly or as a carrier for its subsidiaries,
 affiliates or any other person engaged in communication services, including, but not
 limited to, pay television signals, data or other electronic intelligence transmission,
 meter reading and home shopping.
Applicant.
 Any person applying for a permit to operate a cable television system in the City
 or for approval when required by this Title.
Application.
 Any application to operate a cable television system in accordance with the provisions
 of this Title, including all written proposals, in whatever form, made by an applicant
 or permittee to the City concerning construction, maintenance or any other matter
 pertaining to the cable television system contemplated or operating.
Basic service.
 Subscriber services provided by a permittee covered by regular monthly charge paid
 by all subscribers. Basic service shall not include receipts for installation fees,
 converter charges or taxes collected upon the sale of various services, goods or additional
 services for which a separate charge is made.
Cable television system (or CATV, cable system or system
). A system of coaxial cables or other electrical signals or conductors and reception
 and transmission equipment used or to be used primarily to receive television or radio
 signals directly or indirectly off-the-air and transmit them and other electronic
 intelligence services to and/or from subscribers for a fee.
City.
 When used in this Title, the term 
City
 shall mean the City of Aspen, Colorado and shall encompass, when appropriate, its
 officers and employees, including the City Council and the designees of the City Council.
Class IV channel.
 A signaling path provided by a cable television system to transmit signals of any
 type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the cable television system.
Community channel.
 A specifically designated nonprofit radio or television channel maintained within
 any cable television system for the use of educational and/or governmental authorities,
 in addition to the general public.
Converter.
 An electronic device capable of receiving and converting any authorized signal from
 a cable television system to an output frequency compatible with the receiver of a
 subscriber.
Equipment and apparatus.
 When used in this Title, the term 
equipment and apparatus
 shall mean and include all manholes, underground conduits, poles, cables, boxes,
 wires, fixtures, conductors or other facilities necessary, essential or used or useful
 to and operated in connection with an authorized cable television system.
Fair market value.
 The price that a willing buyer under no compulsion to buy would pay to a willing
 seller under no compulsion to sell. 
Fair market value
 shall not include a valuation of "goodwill" or of any right or privilege under any
 permit issued pursuant to this Title.
FCC.
 The Federal Communications Commission of the United States government or its lawful
 successor.
Gross revenues.
 All revenue derived directly or indirectly by a permittee, its affiliates, subsidiaries
 parent or any person in which the permittee has an ownership interest, from or in
 connection with the operation of a cable television system pursuant to this Title;
 provided, however, all revenues shall include, but not be limited to, basic subscriber
 service monthly fees, pay cable fees, installation and reconnection fees, leased channel
 fees, converter sales and rentals and advertising revenues; and provided further that
 this shall not include any taxes on services furnished by permittee imposed directly
 upon any subscriber or user by any governmental entity and collected by permittee
 on behalf of any governmental entity.
Installation.
 The connection of any cable television system from feeder lines to subscribers' receivers
 and/or converters.
Monitoring.
 The observance of a communication signal or the absence of a signal where the observer
 is neither the subscriber nor the programmer, whether the signal is observed by visual
 or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever. 
Monitoring
 shall also include system-wide, nonindividually addressed sweeps of the system for
 purposes of verifying system integrity, controlling return path transmissions or billing
 for pay services.
Permit.
 The nonexclusive revocable right and franchise to construct and operate a cable television
 system along the streets, alleys, rights-of-way and public ways of the City.
Permit area.
 That area within the boundaries of the City.
Permittee.
 Any person who has applied for and has received a permit to operate a cable television
 system within the City pursuant to the requirements of this Title.
Person.
 When used in this Title the word 
person
 shall include any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
 or organization of any kind.
Programmer.
 Any person who is or who produces or otherwise provides program material for transmission
 by audio, video, digital or other signals, either live or from recorded tapes, to
 subscribers by means of cable television system.
Public easement.
 When used in this Title the term 
easement
 shall be limited in meaning to those rights-of-way owned by the City, the terms,
 conditions or limitations upon which are not inconsistent with the erection, construction
 or maintenance of a cable television system, its structures or equipment.
Public way
 or
(public right-of-way).
 When used in this Title, the term 
public way
 or 
(public right-of-way)
 shall mean and include all public property easements, sidewalks, streets, alleys,
 trails and City-owned utility poles.
Return signals.
 A signaling path provided by a cable television system to transmit signals of any
 type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the cable television system, which
 may include 
Class IV channels
 as defined in this Title.
 (Code 1971, § 25-2; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.030. - Grant of authority.
Any permit to operate a cable television system granted pursuant to the provisions
 of this Title shall grant to the permittee the right and privilege to erect, construct,
 operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under the streets, sidewalks,
 easements and dedications including the right to attach to City-owned poles now in
 existence and as may be created or established during the term of the permit, poles,
 wires, cable, underground conduits, manholes and other television conductors and fixtures
 necessary for the maintenance and operation of a cable television system for the interception,
 sale, transmission and distribution of television programs and other electronic intelligence
 and the right to transmit the same to inhabitants of the City.
 (Code 1971, § 25-3; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.040. - Nonexclusive revocable permit.
The rights granted by permit in accordance with this Title shall be nonexclusive and
 revocable pursuant to its terms and the City shall reserve the right to grant similar
 permits to such other applicants as the City Council may deem to be in the best interest
 of the City; provided, however, nothing in this Title shall be construed or deemed
 to require the granting of additional cable television system permits if, in the judgment
 of the City Council, such additional permits would not be in the best interest of
 the City and its inhabitants.
 (Code 1971, § 25-4; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.050. - Acceptance and term of permit.
Any permit and the rights, privileges and authority granted pursuant thereto shall
 become effective thirty (30) days after approval of the electors of the City voting
 at a special or general election, provided that within said thirty-day period the
 applicant files with the City Clerk its unconditional acceptance of and promise to
 comply with the provisions, terms and conditions of this Title and the granting of
 a permit as approved by ordinance of the City Council and subsequently by the electors.
 Acceptance and promise by applicant shall be in writing duly executed and sworn to
 by the applicant before a notary public or other officer authorized by law to administer
 oaths and shall contain a provision that the permit, by its terms, shall be binding
 on the heirs, successors and assigns of the applicant. All permits issued hereunder
 shall be for a term of not more than fifteen (15) years.
 (Code 1971, § 25-5; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.060. - Fees.
For the reason that the streets and public rights-of-way to be used in the operation
 of a cable television system are valuable public properties acquired and maintained
 by the City at great expense and that permission to use said streets and rights-of-way
 is a valuable property right without which any permittee would be required to invest
 substantial capital in rights-of-way costs and acquisitions and because the City will
 incur costs in regulating and administering any permit issued in accordance with this
 Title, compliance with the following requirements with respect to fees shall be a
 prerequisite to the maintenance of a permit issued in accordance with this Title.
 (a)
 A permit fee shall be paid to the City by the permittee in an amount equal to two
 percent (2%) of permittee's gross revenue on an annual basis from all sources attributable
 to the operations of the permittee within the boundaries of the City.
 (b)
 The permit fee and any other costs assessed to permittee shall be payable annually
 at the office of the Finance Director. The permittee shall file a complete and accurate
 verified statement of all gross revenue accruing as a result of its operations within
 the City during the permittee's preceding fiscal year and said annual fees and charges
 shall be paid to the City not later than ninety (90) days from the close of permittee's
 preceding fiscal year.
 (c)
 The City shall have the right to inspect the permittee's gross revenue records and
 the right to audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable as required
 by this Title; provided, however, that such audit covering any year shall take place
 within thirty-six (36) months following the close of such fiscal year. Any additional
 amount due to the City as a result of the audit shall be paid within thirty (30) days
 following written notice to the permittee by the City, which notice shall include
 a copy of the audit report. The cost of said audit shall be borne by the permittee
 if it is properly determined by the City Council that the permittee's annual payment
 to the City for the audited year is increased by more than five percent (5%).
 (d)
 In the event that any payment or recomputed amount, cost or penalty, is not made on
 or before the dates said payments are due and payable, interest thereon shall accrue
 and be charged from the date said payments are due, at a rate of five percent (5%)
 above the prime interest rate charged by the Central Bank of Denver, Denver, Colorado
 during the period the payments are in arrears.
 (Code 1971, § 25-6; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.070. - Acknowledgement of police power.
Acceptance of any permit issued pursuant to this Title shall constitute an acknowledgement
 by the permittee, its heirs, successors and assigns that its rights under its permit
 are subject to the police power of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances
 necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the public and an agreement that permittee
 shall comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the City pursuant
 to such power as they may be amended from time to time.
 Any conflict between the provisions of any permit and any other present or future
 lawful exercise of the City's police powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter,
 except that any such exercise that is not of general application or applies exclusively
 to any cable television system which contains provisions inconsistent with any permit
 shall prevail only if upon such exercise, the City finds an emergency exists constituting
 a danger to health, safety, property or general welfare or such exercise as mandated
 by law.
 (Code 1971, § 25-7; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.080. - Costs.
Every applicant shall bear the costs attributable to the issuance of a permit pursuant
 to this Title, including, but not limited to, all costs of publication of any ordinance
 specifically authorizing a permit, the costs attributable to any special election
 scheduled solely for the purpose of requiring approval by the electors of the permit,
 the costs of all notices of any public meeting required by this Title and the costs
 incurred by the City in its study, preparation of permit documents, evaluation of
 the application and evaluation of the applicant's qualifications, not including permanent
 staff time.
 (Code 1971, § 25-8; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.090. - Notices.
All notices from any permittee to the City shall be made to the City Manager or such
 person designated in writing by the City Manager. Permittee shall maintain with the
 City, throughout the term of its permit, an address for service of notices by mail.
 Permittee shall also maintain within the County a local office and telephone number
 for the conduct of matters related to its permit during normal business hours.
 (Code 1971, § 25-9; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1 
)

===== Sec. 27.04.100. - Financial guarantees.
In order to ensure the faithful performance of all of the provisions of this Title
 and the provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this Title, all cable television
 system permits shall be conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of this Section
 pertaining to financial guarantees:
 (a)
 Within ten (10) days after the award and voter approval of any permit, the permittee
 shall deposit with the City a letter of credit from a Colorado financial institution
 in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or such lesser amount as the
 City Council may find, by resolution, to reasonably and adequately ensure faithful
 performance by permittee. The form and content of such letter of credit shall be approved
 in writing by the City Attorney. The letter of credit shall be used to ensure the
 faithful performance of all of the provisions of the permit and compliance with all
 requirements of this Title and orders, directions of any agency, commission, board,
 department, division or office of the City having jurisdiction over the acts or defaults
 of permittee under the permit and payment by the permittee of any claims, liens and
 taxes due the City which arise by reason of the construction, operation or maintenance
 of the system.
 (b)
 The letter of credit shall be maintained at an equivalent fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
 or such lesser amount as may be determined by the City Council, indexed to 1983 dollars
 during and continuing for the entire term of the permit even if amounts have to be
 withdrawn pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
 (c)
 If the permittee fails to pay the City any compensation within the time fixed herein
 or fails, after thirty (30) days' notice to pay the City any taxes due unpaid; or
 fails to repay the City within thirty (30) days any damages, costs or expenses which
 the City is compelled to pay by reason of any act or default of the permittee in connection
 with the permit; or, fails, after ten (10) days' notice by the City of such failure
 to comply with any provision of the permit which the City reasonably determines can
 be remedied by demand on letter of credit, the City Manager may immediately request
 payment of the amount thereof from the letter of credit, together, with interest and
 any penalties. Upon such request for payment, the City shall notify the permittee
 of the amount and date thereof. Permittee may appeal such demands for payment to the
 City Council by submitting a written request for appeal to the City Clerk within ten
 (10) days after receipt of the demand.
 (d)
 Any rights reserved to the City with respect to the letter of credit are in addition
 to all other rights of the City, whether reserved by the permit or authorized by law
 and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such letter of credit
 shall affect any other right the City may have.
 (e)
 All letters of credit required by this Section shall contain the following endorsement:
 "It is hereby understood and agreed that this letter of credit may not be cancelled
 by the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety until sixty (60)
 days after receipt by the City, by registered mail, a written notice of such intention
 to cancel or not to renew."
 (Code 1971, § 25-10; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.110. - Indemnification, liability and insurance.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon full compliance with the requirements of this Section pertaining to indemnification,
 liability and insurance:
 (a)
 Permittee shall indemnify and save harmless the City, its officers, employees and
 agents against any and all claims for damages to property or injuries to or death
 of any person or persons, including property and employees or agents of the City,
 its officers, employees and agents, from any and all claims, costs, demands, suits,
 actions or proceedings of any kind or nature resulting from or arising out of permittee's
 operations in connection with the permit, including operations of subcontractors and
 acts or omissions of employees or agents of the permittee.
 (b)
 Permittee shall pay and by its acceptance of a permit shall thereby agree that it
 will pay all reasonable expenses incurred by the City in defending itself with regard
 to all damages and penalties mentioned in Subsection (a) above. These expenses shall
 include all out-of-pocket expenses, such as attorney's fees and shall also include
 the reasonable value of any services rendered by the City Attorney or his or her assistants
 or any employees of the City or its agents.
 (c)
 Permittee shall maintain and by its acceptance of a permit shall specifically agree
 that it will maintain throughout the term of the permit, liability insurance insuring
 the City and the permittee with regard to all damages mentioned in Subsection (a)
 of this Section, in the minimum amount of not less than the limits of liability set
 forth in C.R.S. § 24-10-114, as it may be amended from time to time and at least in
 the following amounts:
 (1)
 Two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for property damage to any one (1)
 person;
 (2)
 One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage in any one (1) accident;
 (3)
 Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injury to any one (1) person;
 and
 (4)
 One million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury in any one (1) accident.
 (d)
 Any insurance policy obtained by permittee in compliance with this Section must be
 approved in writing by the City Attorney and such insurance policy, along with written
 evidence of payment of required premiums, shall be filed and maintained with the City
 Clerk during the term of the permit and may be required by the City to be changed
 from time to time to reflect changing liability limits. The permittee shall immediately
 advise the City Clerk and City Attorney of any litigation that may develop which would
 affect this insurance.
 (e)
 Neither the provisions of this Section nor the payment of any damages required by
 the City hereunder shall limit or be construed to limit, the liability of permittee
 under any permit issued hereunder.
 (f)
 All insurance policies maintained pursuant to this Section shall contain the following
 endorsement:
 "It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be cancelled
 by the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety until sixty (60)
 days after receipt by the City, by registered mail, a written notice of such intention
 to cancel or not to renew."
 (Code 1971, § 25-11; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.120. - Rights of individuals.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon full compliance and acknowledgement of the rights of individuals as required
 by this Section.
 (a)
 Permittee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise discriminate against subscribers,
 channel users or general citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national
 origin or sex. Permittee shall comply with all times with applicable federal, state
 and local laws and regulations and all executive and administrative orders relating
 to nondiscrimination which shall be incorporated and made a part of any permit by
 reference.
 (b)
 Permittee shall strictly adhere to the Equal Employment Opportunity Requirements of
 Federal, State and Local regulations, as they may be amended from time to time.
 (c)
 No signals of a Class IV cable communications channel shall be transmitted from a
 subscriber terminal for the purpose of monitoring individual viewing patterns or practices
 without the express written permission of the subscriber. Requests for such permission
 shall be contained in a separate document with a prominent statement that the subscriber
 is authorizing the permission in full knowledge of this Section. The authorization
 shall be revocable at any time, in writing, by the subscriber without penalty of any
 kind whatsoever. Such authorization is required for each type or classification of
 Class IV cable communications activity planned for such purpose, provided, however,
 that the permittee shall be entitled to conduct system-wide or individually addressed
 "sweeps" for the purpose of verifying system integrity, controlling return-path transmission
 or billing or additional services.
 (d)
 It shall be unlawful for any person, including permittee or any of its agents or employees,
 without the specific written authorization of the subscriber involved, to sell or
 otherwise make available to any party:
 (1)
 A list of the names and addresses of a permittee's subscribers or
 (2)
 Any information which identifies the individual viewing habits of subscribers, with
 the exception of information pertaining to billing which shall be used for billing
 purposes only.
 (Code 1971, § 25-12; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.130. - Selection of a permittee.
All applications seeking a cable television system permit shall address the various
 provisions of this Title and prior to being referred to the electors shall be evaluated
 and approved by the City Council according to the following general criteria:
 (a)
 Installation plan. Preference may be given to an installation plan that would provide
 flexibility needed to adjust to new developments, maintenance practices and services
 that would be available to the subscriber and the community immediately and in the
 future. Preference may be given for total system construction in the shortest time.
 (b)
 Rate schedule. Preference may be given to companies with the most reasonable installation
 and subscriber rate schedule.
 (c)
 Financial soundness and capability. The evidence of financial ability required in
 any application shall be such as to assure ability to complete the entire system within
 the proposed schedule.
 (d)
 Demonstrated experience in operating a cable television system. Preference may be
 given upon evidence of the applicant's experience in operating a cable television
 system under any City franchise or permit, where such evidence would show or tend
 to show or confirm the ability of the applicant to furnish sufficient and dependable
 service to the potential public and private users. Prior to accepting any applicant
 and forwarding the same to the voters for approval, a public fact-finding hearing
 shall be held on the application and approval thereof shall be by ordinance of the
 City Council. The decision to approve an application shall be at the discretion of
 the City Council within the requirements of this Title. No permit shall be granted
 unless approved by a majority vote of the electors of the City voting thereon.
 (Code 1971, § 25-13; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.04.140. - Permit area.
The requirements of this Title shall apply to the present territorial limits of the
 City and any area hereinafter added during the period of any permit. The permittee
 shall be required to extend service to all sections of the City as corporate limits
 of the City now exist and shall be required to extend service to all sections of the
 City annexed or added to the City after the date of final passage of this Title; provided,
 that there is a density in such area to be served of not less than twenty (20) dwelling
 units per one-quarter (¼) mile if underground installation is utilized and not less
 than fifteen (15) dwellings per one-quarter (¼) mile if aerial installation is utilized.
 (Code 1971, § 25-14; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Chapter 27.08. - SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION, OPERATIONS, STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES


===== Sec. 27.08.010. - Construction map and schedule.
No construction shall occur unless the permittee obtains the written approval of the
 City Engineer in accordance with the following procedures:
 (a)
 Prior to any construction permittee shall submit a construction plan. The construction
 plan shall consist of a map of the entire permit area and clearly delineate the following:
 (1)
 The areas within the permit area where the cable television system will be available
 to subscribers.
 (2)
 Those areas within the permit area where extension of the cable television system
 could not reasonably be constructed due to a lack of present or planned development.
 These areas and the reasons for not serving them must be clearly identified on the
 map.
 (3)
 By use of reference to specific areas describe the construction timetable showing
 which areas will be built and the date by which construction and system activation
 will occur.
 (b)
 No permit for construction shall be issued until the construction plan has been reviewed
 and approved by the City Engineer. Any substantial changes in the construction schedule
 that involve delaying construction within any area shall only be permitted pursuant
 to approval in accordance with the application procedure of 
Section 27.12.020
. The City Manager is authorized to determine in writing whether a change is substantial
 thereby requiring approval in accordance with such application procedure.
 (c)
 Copies of the approved plan and any changes thereto shall be filed with the office
 of the City engineer and a copy shall also be made available for public inspection
 during normal business hours at the permittee's local office at permittee's expense.
 (d)
 Nothing in this Section shall prevent the permittee from constructing the system earlier
 than planned. However, no construction shall be permitted beyond the time specified
 in the plan unless and until an application therefor and consent has been obtained.
 Time period extensions shall be granted upon a showing by the permittee that there
 is good cause therefor and the City Council may attach reasonable conditions to assure
 performance.
 (Code 1971, § 25-21; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.020. - System construction.
Construction of the cable television system shall only occur in accordance with the
 following requirements:
 (a)
 Permittee shall comply with the construction plan including the approved construction
 timetable.
 (b)
 In those sections of the City where cables, wires or other like facilities of public
 utilities are placed underground, the permittee shall place its cable, wires or other
 like facilities underground to the maximum extent permissible under existing technology.
 If at any time, the City determines that existing aboveground wires, cables or other
 like facilities of public utilities anywhere in the City shall be changed from an
 overhead to an underground installation, permittee shall also, at permittee's sole
 expense, convert its system to underground installation. Permittee shall be obligated
 to pay only those costs of construction or conversion associated with the underground
 installation of permittee's own equipment.
 (c)
 In any subdivision approved by the City after the effective date of this Title in
 which telephone and electrical utility lines are placed underground, permittee shall
 execute with the subdivider a written purchase order for the installation of such
 underground transmission and distribution of cable television services to residents
 of the subdivision. Permittee shall not charge a subdivider more than permittee's
 actual cost for time and materials for the construction and installation of the underground
 facilities. The amount due may be made payable to permittee sixty (60) days prior
 to the date that cable television service is actually made available to the lots (if
 undeveloped) or dwelling units in the subdivision.
 (d)
 Necessary excavation permits shall be obtained from the City for the installation
 of all underground lines and appurtenances installed in any City right-of-way. All
 underground installations shall comply with the requirements of construction and excavation
 within public rights-of-way required by this Code. Plants and shrubbery shall be restored
 or replaced to as near original state as possible.
 (e)
 Underground installation of distribution lines shall initially be at a minimum of
 twelve-inch depth.
 (f)
 Permittee shall respond to all requests for line locations within forty-eight (48)
 hours. If the permittee fails to respond or fails to locate the line installed by
 permittee the requesting party shall not be responsible for damage that may result.
 Unless the lines are properly located and marked by permittee in a timely fashion,
 the party responsible for any subsequent damage will not be responsible for the cost
 of necessary repairs.
 (g)
 Whether service drops to subscribers are installed by overhead or underground methods,
 no permanent service drops shall be left lying exposed on the ground.
 (h)
 In areas of the City where electrical or telephone systems are installed on poles
 above the ground, the permittee shall have the option of installing its system in
 like manner above the ground or underground.
 (i)
 Permittee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a manner consistent
 with all laws ordinances, construction standards, governmental requirements, FCC technical
 standards and detailed standards submitted by permittee. In addition, permittee shall
 provide the City, upon request, with a written report of the results of permittee's
 annual proof of performance test conducted pursuant to FCC standards and requirements.
 (j)
 Whether performed on private property or public rights-of-way, all construction, installation
 and maintenance of permittee's cable television system shall be performed in an orderly
 and workmanlike manner. All cables and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel
 with electric and telephone lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged
 in parallel and bundled with due respect for engineering considerations.
 (k)
 The cable television system shall not endanger or interfere with the safety of persons
 or property in the permit area.
 (l)
 Any antenna structure used in permittee's cable television system shall comply with
 construction, marking and lighting of antenna structure required by the United States
 Department of Transportation.
 (m)
 Incorporated within any cable television system shall be a capability permitting the
 City in times of emergency to override the audio portion of all channels simultaneously.
 Permittee shall also designate a channel which will be used for emergency broadcasts
 of both audio and video. Permittee shall cooperate with the City in the use and operation
 of the emergency alert over its system.
 (n)
 All necessary easements over and under private property shall be arranged by the permittee.
 If permittee has difficulty obtaining necessary easements, the City will cooperate
 to assist permittee in obtaining necessary easements through the use of the City's
 condemnation powers, to the extent permitted by law and at permittee's expense.
 (o)
 No poles or other fixtures shall be placed where the same will interfere with any
 gas, electric or telephone facilities, traffic-control signalization, streetlights,
 fire lines or communications lines or obstruct or hinder in any manner the various
 utilities serving the residents of the City. All such poles or other fixtures placed
 in any street, alley or public way shall be placed as close as possible to the line
 of the lot abutting thereupon and in such manner as not to interfere with the usual
 traffic on such streets, alleys and public ways.
 (Code 1971, § 25-22; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.030. - Construction bond.
Within thirty (30) days after the award of any permit and prior to construction, permittee
 shall obtain and maintain at its own cost and expense and file with the City Clerk,
 a construction bond provided by a company authorized to do business in the State and
 in a form acceptable to the City Attorney, in the amount of five hundred thousand
 dollars ($500,000.00) or at such lesser amounts as the City Council may by resolution
 find to be satisfactory, to guarantee the timely construction, full activation and
 proper installation of permittee's cable television system. Such bond shall satisfy
 the following requirements:
 (a)
 There shall be recoverable by the City, jointly and severally from the principal and
 surety, any and all damages, loss or costs suffered by the City resulting from the
 failure of the permittee to satisfactorily complete and fully activate the system
 throughout the permit area.
 (b)
 The bond shall specify that any extension to the prescribed construction time limit
 shall be authorized by the City.
 (c)
 The construction bond shall be terminated only after the City Council finds that the
 permittee has satisfactorily completed construction and activation of its system pursuant
 to the terms and conditions of this Title and its permit.
 (d)
 An acknowledgement shall be contained within the bond that the rights reserved to
 the City with respect thereto are in addition to all other rights of the City, whether
 established and reserved pursuant to this Title or otherwise authorized by law and
 no action, proceeding or exercise of any right with respect to such construction bond
 shall affect any other rights the City may have.
 (e)
 The bond shall contain the following endorsement:
 "It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be cancelled by the surety
 nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety until sixty (60) days after
 receipt by the City, by registered mail, a written notice of such intent to cancel
 or not to renew."
 (Code 1971, § 25-23; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.040. - Use of streets and public rights-of-way.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon full compliance with the following requirements pertaining to use of streets
 and public rights-of-way:
 (a)
 Interference with persons and improvements. Permittee's system, poles, wires and appurtenances
 shall be located, erected and maintained so that none of its facilities shall endanger
 or interfere with the lives of persons or interfere with any improvements the City
 may deem proper to make or unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the free use of the streets,
 alleys, bridges, public easements or public property.
 (b)
 Minimum interference with public ways. All transmission and distribution structures,
 lines and equipment erected by the permittee within the City shall be so located as
 to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
 ways and places and to cause minimum interference with the rights or reasonable convenience
 of property owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways
 and places.
 (c)
 Restoration to prior condition. In case of any disturbance by permittee to any public
 easement, pavement, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping, street, alley, public way or
 other surfacing, the permittee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner
 approved by the City Engineer, replace and restore such public easement, paving, sidewalk,
 driveway or surface of any street, alley or public way disturbed, in as good condition
 as before said work was commenced in accordance with standards for such work set by
 the City Engineer.
 (d)
 Relocation of facilities. In the event that at any time during the period of any permit,
 the City shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, alley or
 other public ways, permittee, upon reasonable notice by the City, shall remove or
 relocate as necessary its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and
 other fixtures at its own expense.
 (e)
 Cooperation with building movers. Permittee shall, on the request of any person holding
 a building moving permit, issued by the City, temporarily raise or lower its wires
 to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal, raising
 or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same and permittee
 shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. Permittee shall be given
 not less than five (5) days' advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
 (f)
 Tree trimming. Permittee shall have the same right as may be reserved to the City,
 subject to the approval of the Director of Parks, to trim trees upon and overhanging
 the streets, alleys, sidewalks and public ways and places of the City so as to prevent
 parts of such trees from coming in contact with the equipment and apparatus of permittee.
 Permittee shall undertake reasonable efforts to notify the owner of any property upon
 which the trees are located prior to undertaking such work. At a minimum, notice shall
 be posted on the nearest exit door of any dwelling unit located on such property at
 least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the commencement of work. If the property is
 vacant, a reasonable effort shall be made to locate the owner. Notwithstanding the
 foregoing, in the event of any emergency or interference with the transmission of
 signals through the system by reason of a tree having contact with the equipment and
 apparatus of the permittee, permittee shall be entitled to trim the tree as necessary
 to prevent injuries, damage to property or any person, including permittee or as necessary
 to restore or ensure continued transmission of signals through the permittee's equipment.
 (Code 1971, § 25-24; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.050. - System maintenance standards.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon compliance with the following maintenance standards:
 (a)
 All parts of the system shall be maintained in good condition throughout the entire
 permit area and during the entire term of the permit. In this regard, permittee shall
 agree to be bound by and comply with the following requirements to assure continuity
 of service:
 (1)
 It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving service insofar as
 their financial and other obligations to the permittee are honored. In the event that
 permittee elects to overbuild, rebuild or modify the system, permittee shall act so
 as to ensure that all subscribers receive continuous, uninterrupted service, regardless
 of the circumstances.
 (2)
 In the event that permittee fails to operate the system for four (4) consecutive days
 without prior approval of the City or without just cause, the City may, at its option,
 operate the system and receive the revenues therefrom or designate an operator until
 such time as permittee restores service under conditions acceptable to the City or
 a permanent operator is selected. If the City is required to fulfill this obligation
 for the permittee, permittee shall reimburse the City for all reasonable costs or
 damages in excess of revenues from the system received by the City during the course
 of its operation that are the result of permittee's failure to perform.
 (b)
 Permittee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and interrupt service
 only for a good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such interruptions, insofar
 as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur during periods of minimum
 system use.
 (c)
 The operation of the system shall not interfere with television reception of persons
 not served by permittee.
 (d)
 Throughout the term of any permit, a cable television system shall comply with the
 technical standards and quality of service set forth in this Title. Should the City
 find that the permittee has failed to maintain substantial compliance with the technical
 standards and quality of service required by this Title and the permit and should
 it specifically enumerate feasible corrections to be made, permittee shall make such
 corrections. Failure to make such corrections within three (3) months shall constitute
 a material breach of condition by permittee.
 (e)
 RF leakage shall be checked at reception locations for emergency radio services to
 prove no interference signal combinations are possible. Stray radiation shall be measured
 adjacent to any proposed aeronautical navigation radio sites to prove no interference
 to airborne navigational reception and normal flight patterns. FCC rules and regulations
 shall govern.
 (Code 1971, § 25-25; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1)

===== Sec. 27.08.060. - Complaint procedure.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon full compliance of the requirement of this Section pertaining to complaints regarding
 the quality of service, equipment malfunctions and similar matters:
 (a)
 Permittee's office shall be open to receive inquiries or complaints of subscribers
 during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The
 office shall be reachable by local telephone call and permittee shall provide the
 means to accept complaint calls twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
 Permittee shall designate an agent to receive complaints and shall provide the City
 with such agent's name, address and telephone number.
 (b)
 Any service complaints from subscribers shall be investigated and acted upon as soon
 as possible. All service complaints shall be resolved within three (3) working days.
 (c)
 Upon request by a subscriber, permittee shall credit a subscriber's account on a pro
 rata basis for loss of service commencing forty-eight (48) hours after notification.
 (d)
 Permittee shall keep a maintenance service log which will indicate the nature of each
 service complaint, the date and time it was received, the disposition of said complaint
 and the time and date thereof. The log shall maintain complaints for a minimum period
 of two (2) years and shall be made available for periodic inspection by the City.
 (e)
 As subscribers are connected or reconnected to the system, permittee shall, by appropriate
 means, such as a card or brochure, furnish information concerning the procedures for
 making inquiries or complaints including the name, address and local telephone numbers
 of the agent or agents designated by permittee to whom such inquiries or complaints
 may be addressed and furnish information concerning the City office responsible for
 administration of the permit with the address and telephone number of the office.
 (f)
 Where similar complaints are made or where there exists other evidence, which, in
 the judgment of the City, casts doubt on the reliability or quality of service, the
 City shall have the right and authority to require permittee to test, analyze and
 report on the performance of the system. Permittee shall fully cooperate with the
 City in performing such testing and shall prepare the results in a report, if requested,
 within thirty (30) days after notice. Such report shall include the following information:
 (1)
 The nature of the complaint or problem which precipitated the special test.
 (2)
 What system component was tested.
 (3)
 The equipment used and procedures employed in testing.
 (4)
 The method, if any, in which such complaint or problem was resolved.
 (5)
 Any other information pertinent to said test and analysis which may be required.
 The City may require that the test be supervised at permittee's expense, by a professional
 engineer who is not on permittee's permanent staff. The engineer shall sign all records
 of special tests and forward to the City such records with a report interpreting the
 results of the test and recommending actions to be taken. The City's rights hereunder
 shall be limited to requiring tests, analyses and reports covering specific subjects
 and characteristics based on complaints and other evidence when and under such circumstances
 as the City has reasonable grounds to believe that the complaints or other evidence
 require that tests be performed to protect the public against substandard service.
 (Code 1971, § 25-26; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.070. - Transfer of ownership or control.
In addition to all other requirements of this Title, any permit granted shall be conditioned
 upon full compliance with the following requirements pertaining to transfer of ownership
 or control:
 (a)
 No permit shall be assigned or transferred, either in whole or in part, leased, sublet
 or mortgaged in any manner, nor shall title thereto, either legal or equitable or
 any right, interest or property therein, passed to or vest in any person without the
 prior written consent of the City Council. The proposed assignee must demonstrate
 satisfactory financial responsibility as determined by the City Council and must agree
 to comply with all provisions of this Title and other related ordinances. The City
 Council shall be deemed to have consented to a proposed transfer or assignment in
 the event its refusal to consent is not communicated in writing to permittee within
 sixty (60) days following receipt of a written notice of the proposed transfer or
 assignment.
 (b)
 The City shall be promptly notified of any actual or proposed change in or transfer
 of or acquisition by any other party of control of the permit. The word "control"
 as used herein is not limited to major stockholders but includes actual working control
 in whatever manner exercised. Every change, transfer or acquisition of control of
 the permit shall make the permittee subject to cancellation unless and until the City
 Council shall have consented thereto, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such change, transfer or
 acquisition of control, the City Council may inquire into the qualification of the
 prospective controlling party and the permittee shall assist the City Council in any
 such inquiry.
 (c)
 Assignee must acknowledge that consent or approval of the City Council to any transfer
 of permittee shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the City in
 and to the streets and any transfer shall by its terms, be expressly subordinate to
 the terms and conditions of this Title and any related ordinance.
 (d)
 In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the City Council will not approve any
 transfer or assignment of any permit prior to substantial completion of construction
 of the proposed system.
 (Code 1971, § 25-27; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.080. - Availability of books and records.
As an additional condition to the grant of any permit, permittee shall fully cooperate
 in making available at reasonable times and the City shall have the right to inspect
 the complaint, maintenance and technical records, maps, plans and other like materials
 of the permittee applicable to the system at any time during normal business hours;
 provided where volume and convenience necessitate, permittee may require inspection
 to take place on permittee's premises. Additionally, copies of all petitions, applications,
 communications and reports submitted by the permittee to the Federal Communications
 Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal or state regulatory
 commission or agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting cable
 television operations authorized pursuant to this Title and related ordinances shall
 be provided upon request.
 (Code 1971, § 25-28; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.090. - State of the art.
As an additional condition to the grant of any permit, permittee shall upgrade its
 facilities, equipment and service so that its system is as advanced as the current
 state of technology as reasonably determined by evaluation of the permittee's system
 every two (2) years by the City in accordance with 
Section 27.12.030
, Perform evaluation sessions. Such evaluation shall consist of reviewing the current
 system and comparing it with systems, excluding pilot or test services or systems,
 in other communities of comparable size and density and with comparable demographic
 and competitive factors. Nothing herein shall prevent the City from requesting that
 the permittee appear at any time to discuss the state of art technology and make informal
 suggestions as may be appropriate.
 (Code 1971, § 25-29; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.08.100. - System design and programming.
All cable television systems operating within the City shall comply, at a minimum,
 with the following design and programming requirements:
 (a)
 The system shall be capable of bi-directional signals and have three hundred (300)
 MHZ design.
 (b)
 The system shall be capable of operating independently with complete off-air, headend
 and satellite earth station facilities.
 (c)
 The system shall be capable of providing thirty-five (35) video channels, with twenty
 (20) channels immediately operational upon activation of the system. The eighty-eight
 (88) to one hundred eight (108) MHZ spectrum region shall be devoted to the distribution
 of radio and monaural audio programming.
 (d)
 Permittee shall provide facilities and/or support for the distribution through its
 distribution system, for community channel access, at such time and at such a level
 of financial support as shall be prescribed in its approved permit. Such equipment
 and/or financial support so specified shall be provided directly to the City for allocation,
 in its sole discretion, for use in providing community channel access.
 (e)
 Two (2) channels or ten percent (10%) of the systems' channel capacity, shall be provided
 for community channel use. If the designated community channels are not used, permittee
 may provide programming on channel or channels not used and programming may continue
 until such time as community channel access is approved by the City.
 (Code 1971, § 25-30; Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1)

===== Sec. 27.08.110. - Permittee's services.
As an additional condition to the grant of any permit, all cable television systems
 operating within the City shall provide, at a minimum, the following services in accordance
 with a schedule of reasonable rates prepared by permittee:
 (a)
 Standard installation consisting of an aerial drop, not exceeding two hundred (200)
 feet from a distribution line attachment to the customer's residence.
 (b)
 Concealed wiring and underground drops.
 (c)
 Permittee shall provide service to pre-wired projects (subject to technical compatibility),
 shall review and approve methods and materials, supply specifications, technical assistance
 and material and shall pre-wire all projects upon request.
 (d)
 Deposits for materials and services may be required and collected.
 (e)
 Additional outlets shall be provided as customers may request.
 (f)
 Service shall be transferred upon request.
 (g)
 Service shall be restored to customers wishing restoration, provided such customer
 has satisfied any previous obligations owed.
 (h)
 Extensions or relocations of current customers' service shall be made upon request.
 (i)
 Permittee shall provide and maintain system repair service to customer's premises
 to test and repair service.
 (Code 1971, § 25-31; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Chapter 27.12. - ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATIONS


===== Sec. 27.12.010. - Supplemental rules and regulations.
In addition to the powers of the City to regulate and control cable television systems
 and those powers especially reserved by the City and provided for herein or in any
 permit issued pursuant to the authority of this Title, the right and power is hereby
 reserved by the City to promulgate such additional and supplemental regulations as
 it shall find necessary for the public health, safety and welfare, in the exercise
 of its lawful powers and in furtherance of the terms and conditions of any permit,
 whether such regulations are initiated by the City or upon request by a permittee.
 (Code 1971, § 25-40; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.020. - Application procedure.
Except as provided in 
Section 27.08.010
 regarding construction approvals, all applications, including applications for a
 cable television system permit, services, construction plans and schedules, transfer
 or ownership, proposed changes in regulations or ordinances, etc., shall be made and
 processed according to the following procedure:
 (a)
 Applications shall be submitted to the City Manager in written form and shall contain
 sufficient facts and information for the City to act thereon, as may be deemed necessary
 by the City. In the event an application is deemed inadequate, rejection thereof shall
 be by written notice which shall state the perceived deficiencies. Such notice shall
 not be construed to limit further and different deficiencies on subsequent applications.
 (b)
 The City Manager shall review all applications for adequacy and shall, within fourteen
 (14) days of its submission, determine whether the application, if adequate, is of
 such nature to require City Council rather than City Manager approval. If the City
 Manager determines that City Council approval is warranted under the circumstances
 of the application, he or she shall forward it to the City Council or the City Council's
 designee for further study and reporting as the City Council may deem reasonably appropriate.
 To the extent practicable, such study shall be completed within ten (10) days after
 the initial presentation to the City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting and
 such initial period may be extended an additional thirty (30) days upon the giving
 of written notice to the applicant or such longer period of time as may be consented
 to by applicant. During the study period, the applicant or the permittee, as the case
 may be, shall fully cooperate with City representatives in providing information and
 documents related to and reasonably necessary for the proper evaluation of the application.
 Failure to cooperate or unreasonable delay in providing information and documents
 shall be grounds for a determination by the City Council that the application is inadequate.
 (c)
 The City Council shall review the application and all attendant studies, information
 and recommendations as soon as is practicable after the completion of the study. In
 the event a public hearing is deemed appropriate or is otherwise required, the City
 Council shall schedule and notice a public hearing within thirty (30) days after the
 completion of the study. If, in the course of the public hearing, the City Council
 determines that additional information or documents are necessary to adequately evaluate
 the application, it may continue the hearing from time to time pending augmentation
 of the record. To the extent practicable, continuances shall not exceed fifteen (15)
 days at a time. As soon as practicable after the close of the public hearing, the
 City Council shall either approve, approve with modifications or deny the application.
 The City Council shall indicate the basis of its action for the record and shall notify
 the applicant of its decision. Reasonable conditions in furtherance of the purpose
 and intent of the permit or application may be attached by the City Council to an
 approval or modification.
 (d)
 Any time limit hereinabove may be waived by consent of the City Council and applicant.
 (Code 1971, § 25-41; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.030. - Performance evaluation sessions.
Performance evaluation sessions shall be held at a minimum of every two (2) years
 from the granting of any cable television system permit or anniversary date thereof
 and the City Council may direct that such evaluation sessions be conducted by a cable
 TV advisory committee. In addition, special evaluation sessions may be held at any
 time during the term of the permit upon reasonable request of the City or permittee.
 Evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and announced in a newspaper of general
 circulation within the City at least ten (10) days prior to the session and permittee
 shall notify its subscribers of all evaluation sessions by announcement on at least
 one (1) channel of its system between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., for five
 (5) consecutive days preceding each session. Topics which may be discussed at any
 session or special evaluation session may include, but shall not be limited to, service
 rate structures, permit fee, penalties, free or discounted services, community channel
 performance, allocation or channels for community channel use, application of new
 technologies, system performance, services provided, programming offered, customer
 complaints, privacy, amendments to this Title, judicial and FCC rulings, line extension
 policies and permit or City rules. During a review and evaluation by the City, permittee
 shall fully cooperate with the City and shall provide such information and documents
 the City may need to reasonably perform its review. Any performance evaluation session
 may be waived by the written consent of the City Council and permittee.
 (Code 1971, § 25-42; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.040. - Monetary penalties.
In addition to all other remedies under this Title or as may otherwise be provided
 by law or the conditions of any permit, the following penalties may be chargeable
 against the permittee for a violation of any of the following provisions of CATV permit:
 (a)
 The sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per day for failure to complete system
 construction in accordance with the submitted plan, unless the City Council specifically
 approves the delay, due to the occurrence of conditions beyond permittee's control,
 payable per day for each day or part thereof that the deficiency continues, as determined
 by the City Council.
 (b)
 The sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for failure to provide information
 required pursuant to this Title or as may be required in a permit, per day for each
 day or part thereof, that the violation occurs or continues, as may be determined
 by the City Council.
 (c)
 The sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for failure to test, analyze and report
 on the performance of the system within a reasonable time following a request by the
 City pursuant to any permit, payable for each day or part thereof, that such noncompliance
 continues as may be determined by the City Council.
 (d)
 The sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for failure of the permittee to comply
 with operational maintenance standards within forty-five (45) days following written
 notice from the City determining that the permittee has failed to comply with operational
 or maintenance standards, payable for each day or part thereof, that such noncompliance
 continues, as may be determined by the City Council.
 (Code 1971, § 25-43; 
Ord. No. 64-1984, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.050. - Forfeiture and termination.
In addition to all other remedies, rights and powers retained by the City pursuant
 to this Title, law, any permit or otherwise, the City shall, as a condition to the
 granting of a permit, reserve the right to forfeit and terminate any such permit and
 all rights and privileges thereunder in the event of a substantial breach of the terms
 and conditions of said permit or the requirements of this Title. A substantial breach
 by permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 (a)
 Violation of any material provision of this Title, the provisions of a permit or any
 material rule order, regulation or determination of the City made pursuant to this
 Title.
 (b)
 Any attempt at evading or attempting to evade any material provision of any permit
 or perpetrating or attempting to perpetrate any fraud, deceit or misrepresentation
 upon the City or actual or potential subscribers or customers of the cable television
 service.
 (c)
 Failure to begin or complete system construction.
 (d)
 Failure to provide the types of services required by any permit.
 (e)
 Failure to restore service after ninety-six (96) consecutive hours of interrupted
 service, except when approval of such interruption is obtained from the City Council
 prior to or subsequent to such interruption.
 (f)
 Material misrepresentation of fact in any application pursuant to this Title.
 The foregoing shall not constitute a material breach if the violation occurs without
 fault of the permittee or its directors, officers or employees or occurs as a result
 of circumstances beyond permittee's control. However, permittee shall not be excused
 by mere economic hardship or by misfeasance or malfeasance of its directors, officers
 or employees.
 (Code 1971, § 25-44; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.060. - Procedure for a forfeiture and termination.
In the event that permittee fails to comply with any provision, rule order or requirement
 or determination under or pursuant to this Title or its permit, the City Council may
 direct that a written demand for compliance be served upon the permittee by depositing
 a copy of the same in the United States mail by certified or registered mail addressed
 to permittee at its business office. If the violation is not remedied within a period
 of thirty (30) days following such written demand or without satisfactory proof that
 corrective action is being actively and expeditiously pursued by permittee, the City
 Council may schedule a hearing for the purpose of taking action on the forfeiture
 and termination of the permit. Written notice of the City Council's intent to request
 such forfeiture and termination and setting forth the time and place of the hearing
 shall be served upon permittee and shall have been published in a newspaper of general
 circulation in the City at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing.
 If based on the record adduced at the hearing, the City Council determines that there
 is substantial evidence that the alleged violation was the responsibility or fault
 of permittee and within permittee's control, the City Council may find and declare
 the permit terminated and forfeited or provide an additional reasonable period for
 compliance. No opportunity for compliance shall be granted by the City Council in
 the event of a finding of fraud or misrepresentation on the part of permittee. The
 City Council shall again immediately consider the issue of forfeiture and termination
 at the expiration of the time set by it for compliance, at which time the City Council
 may terminate the permit forthwith upon a finding that permittee has failed to achieve
 compliance or, in its sole discretion, may further extend said period for compliance.
 (Code 1971, § 25-45; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.12.070. - Compliance with state and federal laws.
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Title to the contrary, permittee shall
 at all times comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the state and federal
 governments or any administrative agencies thereof. Should any such state or federal
 law or regulation require permittee to perform any service or shall purport to permit
 the performance of any service or purport to prohibit the performance of any service,
 in conflict with the terms of this Title or any permit approved pursuant hereto or
 of any law or regulation of the City, permittee shall, as soon as possible following
 the knowledge thereof notify the City Attorney of the point of conflict believed to
 exist between such regulation or law and the laws or regulations of the City or this
 Title or approved system permit. The City Attorney shall, as soon as practicable,
 refer such conflict to the City Council and, if the City Council determines that a
 material provision of this Title is affected by any subsequent action of the State
 or federal governments, the City Council shall have the right to modify or amend any
 of the provisions of this Title or any permit to such reasonable extent as may be
 necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this Title.
 (Code 1971, § 25-46; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Chapter 27.16. - CONDITIONS REGARDING TERMINATION, ASSIGNMENT OR PUBLIC PURCHASE OF CATV SYSTEM


===== Sec. 27.16.010. - Post-termination period.
Any permit issued pursuant to this Title shall be conditioned upon and contain assurances
 that permittee shall comply with the following requirements with regard to termination
 of permit by expiration or lack of extension so that there will be no interruption
 of service:
 (a)
 No later than fifteen (15) months prior to the expiration of any permit, the permittee
 shall serve upon the City a notice of its intention to renew in accordance with the
 procedures outlined in 
Section 27.16.040
 or to abandon the system upon termination. Should the permittee indicate its intention
 to abandon the system the City shall have the option, exercisable within three (3)
 months prior to the expiration, to purchase the system at its fair market value. In
 the event of dispute in the matter, the question of fair market value may be submitted
 to an independent arbitrator for binding determination in conformance with the arbitration
 procedures of the American Arbitration Association and Rule 109 of the Colorado Rules
 of Civil Procedure. The City's right to purchase as hereinabove provided shall be
 assignable at the discretion of the City Council and upon notice of purchase, purchase
 or assignment of right to purchase, permittee shall upon consummation of any acquisition
 deliver the system to the City or its assignee in good operating condition.
 (b)
 In the event that permit is not extended or renewed or the system is not purchased
 by the City as hereinabove provided, permittee shall, at its own expense, remove its
 system from the streets and public ways of the City and the private property of subscribers
 within one hundred eighty (180) days after the expiration of the permit as set forth
 in 
Section 27.16.030
.
 (Code 1971, § 25-50; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.16.020. - Termination due to permittee's breach of permit or because of revocation for breach.
Upon termination because of permittee's breach of any permit or because of revocation
 for breach, the permittee:
 (a)
 Shall temporarily continue to operate the system for a period of up to six (6) months,
 as may be determined in the sole discretion of the City Council, so that there is
 no interruption of service and
 (b)
 May sell its system; provided, that the sale is expressly conditioned upon the prospective
 purchaser applying for and obtaining a permit in conformance with the requirements
 of this Title; or
 (c)
 Shall sell its system to the City, its assignee; provided, the City is willing to
 purchase the system for fair market value in accordance with 
Section 27.16.010
; or
 (d)
 Shall remove, at its own expense, its system from the streets and ways of the City
 and the private property of the subscribers within one hundred eighty (180) days after
 the effective date of the revocation or termination and shall forfeit the full value
 of its faithful performance bond, provided the City is willing to allow removal and
 accept forfeiture of the performance bond.
 (Code 1971, § 25-51; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.16.030. - Removal of the system.
In addition to requirements for the removal of the system as provided in this Chapter,
 permittee shall promptly, within one hundred eighty (180) days, remove its system
 from public ways and subscriber private property if the permittee fails or ceases
 to operate its system for a continuous period of ninety (90) days. No notice or revocation
 proceedings shall be required for this provision to become effective.
 If permittee fails to remove all its properties from public ways and subscriber private
 property within one hundred eighty (180) days' removal period, permittee shall forfeit
 its faithful performance bond and the City Council may declare all such property of
 permittee abandoned and all such property shall become the property of the City and
 the permittee shall further agree to execute and deliver an instrument in writing
 transferring its ownership interest in any such property to the City.
 (Code 1971, § 25-52; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)

===== Sec. 27.16.040. - Procedures for renewal.
The following procedures shall be applied in the event of permit renewal:
 (a)
 Permittee shall inform the City in writing of its intent to seek renewal at least
 fifteen (15) months prior to the expiration of any permit and shall include therewith
 its proposal for services in accordance with a renewed permit.
 (b)
 In addition to all of the requirements of this Title pertaining to permit applications,
 in cases of renewal, the City Council shall also determine whether the permittee has
 satisfactorily performed its obligations under its permit. To determine satisfactory
 performance, the City Council shall consider technical developments and performance
 of the system, programming, other services offered, cost of services and any other
 particular requirement set forth in this Title or the permit and the City Council
 shall also consider permittee's proposal in its annual reports made to the City and
 the FCC.
 (c)
 In the course of making the determination required in Subsection (a) above, the City
 Council shall provide the opportunity for public comment at least one (1) public hearing,
 notice of which shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation at least
 ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
 (d)
 The City shall make its determination with respect to the permittee's eligibility
 for renewal within a period of four (4) months from the date it receives notice of
 intent to renew from permittee.
 (e)
 If, based on permittee's performance during its permit term, permittee's new proposal
 and the public hearing held thereon, the City finds that a renewal of the permit with
 permittee is in the public interest, the City may enter into a renewal of the permit
 in accordance with the provisions of the title, as it may be amended from time to
 time.
 (f)
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, no requests for renewal shall be unreasonably denied.
 (Code 1971, § 25-53; 
Ord. No. 64-1983, § 1
)
